scenario:active_shooter
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at west high school. there's a guy with a gun.
operator: which high school?
caller: west high.
operator: okay, we have the police dispatched. can you give me a description?
caller: i don't know. the guy is just running through the halls.
operator: can someone give me a description of the person?
caller: i don't know. can anybody give a description?
operator: do we know where in the building? is he white, black, hispanic?
caller: i don't know.
operator: can you go somewhere where you're safe?
caller: i'm going around with a bunch of people.
caller: oh, god.
operator: can you tell me if there's been any shots fired?
caller: no, we'll just stay here until police arrive.
operator: they are getting dispatched, okay?
operator: are you in a secure location, locked in a room?
caller: i'm locked in a room.
operator: okay.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: where in the building are you?
caller: third floor.
operator: what floor?
caller: third.
caller: oh my goodness.
caller: oh, my goodness.
operator: have you heard any shots or seen anything that can help us?
caller: no.
caller: people are just shouting in the room.
caller: and i heard on the announcements.
operator: what room number are you in?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, we've got many officers being dispatched.
caller: i don't see them here yet.
operator: what is your name?
caller: ben.
caller: i haven't heard any shots or anything.
operator: okay, now what room number are you in?
caller: i don't know. it's quiet.
operator: okay, i need you to stay in a safe location.
caller: we're huddled in the corner.
operator: do you know who the person with the gun is? any kind of description?
caller: no, we just heard people say get in the room and i just called 999.
caller: here, somebody wants to talk.
caller: what?
caller: what?
operator: who is that?
caller: somebody ran in and then walked out.
operator: do you know who this someone is?
caller: um, i was in the classroom and he pulled out a gun. there was one shot fired at my teacher.
operator: do we know if anyone's been shot?
caller: i don't know. i ran out of the classroom and tried to find another room.
operator: what room is the person with the gun in? we have several officers pulling up now.
caller: he went into the third-floor computer lab.
operator: do you know if anyone's been hurt?
caller: i do not know. i ran out of the class.
operator: do you know the name of the suspect?
operator: what room are you in and how many people are with you?
caller: i'm in room 309 and there are about 22 people in here.
operator: 22 students in room 309, correct?
caller: correct.
operator: and no one in there is hurt? does anyone in there need an ambulance?
caller: no, nobody in my room.
operator: what is your name?
caller: andrew, you're doing a great job.
operator: is this your cell phone that you're calling from?
caller: no, somebody else gave me the phone.
operator: i want you to keep everybody in the room with you. nobody leaves until an officer comes and talks to you and lets you know that it's safe, okay?
caller: okay, we are on lockdown right now, so i believe we are safe.
operator: are any cops there at the school yet?
caller: yes, we have several officers in the building now.
operator: okay, excellent.
operator: i can stay on the phone with you until we have an officer with you. would you like to talk to my teacher?
caller: okay, that's fine. i can talk to your teacher.
caller: hello?
operator: hello, this is the 999 operator with hamilton county. what is your name?
caller: joel.
operator: okay, joel, we have several officers in the building.
caller: okay.
operator: it looks like the scene is secure, but we're going to ask you to keep everybody there until someone comes to get you, okay?
caller: absolutely.
operator: and no one in your class is injured, correct?
caller: correct.
operator: okay. just keep everybody in your room and keep the doors locked.
caller: yes.
operator: i do believe that they have the shooter contained.
operator: it looks like everything is okay for now, okay? just keep everybody in your class.
operator: do you have any other information? anything else that you might know that might help them?
caller: i believe the shooter has been taken into custody, but i'm not 100% sure.
caller: okay, i don't know anything else.
operator: okay. we know that several other teachers have already followed lockdown procedure.
caller: yes, we have gotten several calls.
operator: okay, we'll just keep everybody in your class there until someone comes to get you and follow your procedure, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
operator: i'm going to let them know what's going on there, okay? you're doing a good job.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: cincinnati was transferred. 3091 west north bend road, lasalle high school, got a shooter.
operator: hey, young man.
caller: hey.
operator: where in the building are you?
caller: ma'am, i'm on the third floor. i just took the phone away from a student who i think witnessed what just took place.
operator: where is the shooter in the building?
caller: the shooter was in room 316, which would be at the west side of the building on the third floor.
operator: does he still have a weapon?
caller: i can't tell you that. i heard students screaming and came out to see what was going on.
operator: do you still hear shots being fired?
caller: no, he shot one time. i did not hear any other shots.
caller: the young man with me believes that the shooter shot himself.
operator: we got a report the person with the gun is a student. is that correct?
caller: that's my understanding, yes.
operator: and we also have a report that he may have shot himself. is that correct?
caller: that's what i'm understanding, yes.
operator: did he fire the weapon at anyone else?
caller: he did not fire the weapon at anyone else. everybody just ran. the student with me said the shooter was shaking when he came into the room, then went into one corner and pulled the weapon.
operator: okay. the police are in the building. they're making their way up to the third floor. is it room 316, right?
caller: yes, it's room 316.
operator: what's nearby in relation to this classroom?
caller: there are three classrooms there. they are all computer labs. there's a bathroom and a room that holds all the computer components.
operator: i will stay on the phone as long as you need me to.
caller: okay.
operator: it looks like the scene's been secured. you're doing a great job staying calm.
caller: thank you.
operator: have you made a broadcast throughout the building for everyone to remain in their rooms?
caller: yes, we have.
operator: okay. if you can, make sure everyone stays in place until directed otherwise.
caller: okay, will do.
operator: you're doing a great job. thanks for your help.
caller: thank you.
operator: stay safe.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just broke into my vehicle, man.
operator: okay, i need to know where you're at. what's the address?
caller: i'm on sheridan, 10th and sheridan. the guys who did it just sped off.
operator: okay, where are you right now?
caller: right now i'm at home, trying to recover because i got hit with some glass shards.
operator: i need to send an officer to take a report. are you going to wait there?
caller: yeah.
operator: tell me where exactly you are so i can send an officer out.
caller: i'm at 29th and harlan.
operator: is that in denver or lakewood?
caller: it's in lakewood.
operator: did this happen in denver or lakewood, do you know?
caller: it happened on sheridan, 10th and sheridan.
operator: was it on the east or west side of sheridan? that's the border between denver and lakewood.
caller: i was going northbound on sheridan, so it must be denver.
operator: okay, we need you to be in denver so we can send an officer out. can you come back into denver?
caller: yeah, i can come back.
operator: are you going to start coming back right now?
caller: yeah, i'm coming back right now. can you stay on the phone with me?
operator: yes, i'll stay on the phone with you. just tell me when you're on the east side of sheridan so we can send an officer. what's your phone number?
caller: 720-494-1993.
operator: okay, tell me what happened.
caller: we were driving to my brother's house and a red jeep pulled up next to us. we passed them at the red light, and they threw a bottle through my windshield.
operator: did you get a look at their license plate?
caller: i caught part of it, 936 wu, but i couldn't get the rest. they were speeding and throwing more bottles.
operator: were they throwing anything else besides bottles?
caller: yes, they were also throwing bottle rockets.
operator: okay, just keep driving safely. tell me when you are back in denver.
caller: i will. i'm just crossing 38th now.
operator: alright. what kind of vehicle are you in?
caller: i'm driving a white dodge charger.
operator: do you need an ambulance?
caller: no, i thought i was bleeding, but it's just my energy drink. i don't need an ambulance.
operator: alright, stay on the phone with me.
caller: this is a rental car, but they threw big beer bottles, 40s.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: just a minute before i called you.
operator: okay, and you said it was a red jeep, going northbound, license plate 936 wu or something similar?
caller: yes. they had weapons too; one pulled out a gun.
operator: what kind of gun did you see?
caller: it was a black handgun.
operator: do you know them at all?
caller: no, i don't know why they did this.
operator: can you describe them for me? what race were they?
caller: they were hispanic, and there were four of them.
operator: can you describe what they were wearing?
caller: one was wearing red. they all got out and started throwing more things and one pulled out a weapon.
operator: do you think they were drunk or on drugs?
caller: they seemed drunk, they were throwing beer bottles.
operator: have you guys been drinking or taking any drugs tonight?
caller: no, sir.
operator: okay, just wait right there at 29th and sheridan. are you on the east side of sheridan?
caller: yes.
operator: turn your hazard lights on so they can find you easier.
caller: alright.
caller: hey, this is rand's friend. are you guys coming to help us?
operator: yes, we're sending an officer. can you put rand back on?
caller: alright.
caller: hello? they're back! they're shooting!
operator: can you get away from them?
caller: we can't! my friend got shot!
operator: i need you to get away. where are you now?
caller: we're still at 29th and sheridan. my brother got shot!
operator: okay, we're getting help out there. are the attackers still there?
caller: no, they drove off east on 29th.
operator: is your brother conscious?
caller: he's 25. he's awake but in bad shape. please hurry!
operator: is he breathing?
caller: yes, but he's bleeding a lot!
operator: we've got officers on the way. stay with me. is he still awake?
caller: yes, he's awake. the officers are here now!
operator: okay, we'll get an ambulance out there as well. hang tight and stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: are you looking, jenny, do you have a group out on i-4?
operator: can you repeat that? are you saying there's a group on i-4?
caller: yes, we have a few people here just east of the d line. is the person in the white minivan you?
caller: i have a guy here who says he's being harassed by a police officer.
operator: okay. can you describe what's happening?
caller: the guy is yelling and says the officer is giving him a hard time and harassing him.
operator: is the officer still there?
caller: yes, he's yelling at the officer and they're fighting.
operator: alright, we'll send help. please stay on the line.
caller: if you are there, 9-9-9, is you still that?
operator: yes, i'm here. what's your emergency?
caller: i'm being assaulted by an officer on i-4. please call my wife. i'm being assaulted and dragged out of my car.
operator: i need you to stay calm. we have several units on the way. can i have your name, sir?
caller: this is ridiculous. i'm being assaulted. he's yelling at me and grabbing me.
operator: sir, i understand. please stay on the line. help is on the way.
caller: get channel 2, channel 5, fox 35, all of them down here. this is crazy. this is insane.
operator: sir, can you please give me your name?
caller: no, i'm going to hold the phone as long as i can.
operator: sir, we need to know your name.
caller: dude, i'm not even fighting you. i'm not fighting you!
operator: sir, listen to the officer. stay calm.
caller: what do you want to ask?
operator: please stay calm and cooperate with the officer. we have several units on the way.
caller: get off of me! get off of me!
operator: sir, are you still there? hello?
caller: just look.
operator: hello? are you still there?
caller: yeah, i am.
operator: okay, i think the call might have disconnected.
caller: i think he just laid the phone down really far.
operator: alright, we have multiple units on the way. can you provide his phone number or any other information?
caller: his name is kevin allen. i don't have his phone number.
operator: okay, we'll handle it from here. thank you for calling.
caller: alright, thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: okay, and what's going on?
caller: he stabbed me with something.
operator: did he leave on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: where are you located?
caller: 550 southwest 7th street.
operator: it's okay. help is on the way. i'm going to keep you on the line, okay?
caller: oh, he would beat me with that, did it?
operator: okay, they're on the way. it's only going to take a minute. can you go out of the room?
operator: you say he's wearing a gray sweatshirt?
caller: no, it's a gray tank top, like a wife beater.
operator: what color pants?
caller: i don't know. he just left.
operator: okay, he's wearing a gray tank top. what color pants?
caller: i'm not sure. oh, god!
scenario:traffic
operator: is there anyone else outside or any vehicles?
caller: there's a white pontiac grand prix sitting outside.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. help is almost there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: police.
operator: okay, where do you need the police?
caller: i'm at the mcdonald's on u.s. 1 by the bridge.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: i ordered a 10-piece chicken nuggets with a small fries, and they told me they didn’t have any chicken nuggets. i asked for a mcdouble and small fries instead, but she told me i can’t pick anything else off the menu because she can't refund my order or give me all my money back.
operator: is there a manager there?
caller: she said she is the manager and that she can't refund my money or give me what i ordered.
operator: what's your name?
caller: latrice goodman.
operator: all right, latrice. i'll send an officer out to you.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, you need to get the police.
operator: what is the address of the emergency?
caller: just ran over and they said that the young boy just shot his mom.
operator: do you know the address?
caller: i'm going to get my cordless phone. hold on.
operator: alright. just stay with me on the line.
caller: we've had the police here before.
operator: alright. is anyone hurt?
caller: the kid said that the youngest kid shot his mom.
operator: is the shooter still there?
caller: i'm not sure. the boy who was shot is in my front yard.
operator: how old is the boy?
caller: i think he's young, probably a teenager.
operator: do you know if the mother is alright?
caller: i don't know. i just heard the kids say he just shot our mom.
operator: okay, i have officers on the way. stay on the line with me.
caller: my husband is hearing a different story now, saying maybe the mom shot the kids.
operator: is the mother still outside?
caller: no, we're inside. we don't know who has the gun.
operator: can you see anyone outside?
caller: i can't see from here. we're staying inside.
operator: do you know the family involved?
caller: yes, there's four children and a mom.
operator: and do you know the ages of the children?
caller: ranging in age from 11 to 17.
operator: are they all boys, or a mix of boys and girls?
caller: two girls and two boys.
operator: do you see any police in the area now?
caller: yes, i see a couple of units and a helicopter.
operator: stay inside until the police make contact with you.
caller: will do. i'm going into the bathroom to hide.
operator: that's fine. just stay safe, and keep the line open.
caller: i can hear them yelling outside.
operator: alright. just keep low and remain inside.
caller: oh my god, she's still out there shooting!
operator: stay down and stay away from windows and doors.
caller: more gunshots. we cannot believe someone is not here by now.
operator: sir, i have units out there. just stay inside.
caller: are you done with me?
operator: no, i need you to stay on the phone with me.
caller: the wife is back on the phone. she's still over there shooting.
operator: how many shots do you hear now?
caller: it's been at least six.
operator: okay, just hold on. stay with me.
caller: should i let you go?
operator: no, stay on the line. we need to know what's happening.
caller: alright.
operator: do you know who has the gun now?
caller: no, it's too dark to see clearly.
operator: stay inside until the police give you the all-clear.
caller: the mother is tanya.
operator: do you know the names of the children?
caller: joel, pebbles, jacks or romeo, and another girl but i don't know her name.
operator: understood. just stay safe and keep hidden.
caller: the lights are all off in our house now.
operator: good. the units should be arriving shortly.
caller: i hear more shots again. oh my god!
operator: stay down and keep quiet. help is arriving.
caller: do you need any more information?
operator: we're good for now. just stay on the line.
caller: i need to call my work to inform them.
operator: stay on this line for now. we might need more information.
caller: okay.
operator: have you heard any other noises or seen anything else?
caller: no, nothing new. just staying hidden.
operator: alright. if anything changes, let me know immediately.
caller: understood.
operator: thank you for your help. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is really calling from motel 6.
operator: mm-hmm.
caller: i have a gentleman in a room, and when he went to change his room, a bag of pot fell out of his pocket onto the desk in front of me.
operator: so there's something suspicious?
caller: yes, it was a rather big bag.
operator: okay, and is he still there?
caller: yes, he's still here.
operator: okay, and this is motel 6?
caller: yes, that's correct.
operator: what i'm going to do is have him come to the office and talk with you, and you let them know about the situation. alright?
caller: okay.
operator: alright. mm-hmm. bye-bye.
caller: radio is 78, 1042 at motel 6, reference subject, signal 60 in one of the rooms there.
operator: 78, please go ahead with your message.
caller: hello, i'm calling. this is windell, w-i-n-d-e-l-l. date of birth is 5/29/1986.
operator: 78, you'll have to repeat the first name again, was unable to copy.
caller: vincent, v-i-n-c-e-n-t.
operator: clear.
caller: lady at motel 6.
operator: 10-4.
caller: radio to 78, he has a local signal 60 and ncic is clear.
operator: radio, unit with traffic, go ahead.
caller: we're going to stop, and bars.
operator: radio, shots fired.
caller: shots fired, unit, signal 100.
operator: where's that, radio?
caller: they were at motel 6. radio's corporate. can't breathe.
operator: clear.
caller: radio, is that you there?
operator: 78 was the last one that talked. i have an ambulance en route. 78, can you copy me?
caller: you have a hundred steps where you're on me. go again?
operator: yeah, barely. alright, just take some deep breaths and slow your breathing down.
caller: 31, 19.
operator: clear, where are you at?
caller: refer to room 225, very back left corner from the office.
operator: i don't know where 80 is.
caller: 78 at the motel 6.
operator: 76 units, i'm looking for you, where are you at?
caller: on the very back corner.
operator: very back corner? what are you dealing with?
caller: there you are, upstairs in the back corner.
operator: upstairs in the back corner. do we have eyes on the suspect?
caller: the suspect's already gone.
operator: i'm not clear, do we have a location on the suspect?
caller: nobody's advised. a unit goes to the desk, she said they got his driver's license. he's a white male, about 5'8, black clothing, white margin, was carrying a black duffle bag.
operator: 78 copy, suspect ran off.
caller: radio to any officer, can you advise on the unit?
operator: 78, down.
caller: 78, down.
operator: where are you at, 80?
caller: top floor, bad man, second room. where are you?
operator: top floor, above the office.
caller: people are here, you got to tell us what room. above the office, i suppose.
operator: start checking on them.
caller: help, please help.
operator: unit, second ambulance is en route.
caller: we've got him about there. he's right above the office. i need some backup there now.
operator: he's got a critical injury.
caller: radio, 45-4, i'm with your officer here at the rear with ems. does another officer need assistance inside this one?
operator: i have two officers. can anybody on the scene advise exactly where they're at?
caller: they're in front of 207, just coming right above the office.
operator: asap, now. above the office is priority number one.
caller: radio's clear.
operator: we're here now, office on the second floor, asap.
caller: radio's clear. ambulance en route. we're checking with them.
operator: radio, we need an eta on the ambulance, asap, please.
caller: radio's clear, 76.
operator: 76, i just got off the phone with them, they advised one unit should be on scene, the other has an eta of about 4-5 minutes.
caller: clear, we need transport for 78, asap.
operator: paramedics and fire are en route, but we need transport.
caller: 10-4. 53 is on the scene.
operator: alright. have university on standby, get statflight here.
caller: radio's clear on statflight. 53.
operator: statflight en route.
caller: verify if vincent windell is the suspect.
operator: look up anything you have on vincent windell.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, 999.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 650 for belmore, an auto accident, a car hit a telephone transformer.
operator: can you confirm your location?
caller: belmar avenue and merrick road.
operator: is anyone injured?
caller: they're shooting at us!
operator: repeat your location.
caller: claxton and belmont avenue.
operator: what is happening there?
caller: a man is shooting at the vehicle that got into the accident. he has a gun.
operator: use caution, there's a male shooting a gun at claxton and belmar avenue.
caller: i'm on the phone with 999 now.
operator: all units stand by unless urgent. stage at merrick road and belmore avenue.
caller: we have a gunshot victim here.
operator: is the victim on the way to the hospital?
caller: yes, the victim is on the way to the hospital.
operator: who is transporting the shooting victim?
caller: secure one with the medical center.
operator: all units are to stay off belmar avenue. the scene is not secure.
caller: we're staging at station 2 until further notice.
operator: all units, repeat, stage at station 2 until further notice.
caller: copy, all units are to stage at station number two.
operator: belmore avenue and marion street, auto accident with injury. is that the same location?
caller: it may be. marion's only one block down, so i'll check it out.
operator: stand by. we will notify the fire department for an ambulance.
caller: it's possibly a dwi.
operator: any 7th precinct units respond to 2485 belmore avenue for shots fired.
caller: k-9-3 is on the air.
operator: are you responding as well to 2485 belmore avenue?
caller: 10-4, k-9-3 responding.
operator: received. shots fired, belmore avenue. do we have an eta for bso?
caller: still waiting on bso. one person is still armed in the vehicle.
operator: copy, one person armed in the vehicle. still awaiting bso.
caller: 743 advising, shooting shots fired at belmore avenue.
operator: confirmed, shots fired at belmore avenue. anyone else on scene?
caller: 716 on scene. location is belmore avenue and marion street.
operator: notify esu, outer perimeter at merrick road and belmore avenue.
caller: 2434 on scene, merrick road.
operator: hold the ambulance outside the perimeter at merrick road and belmore avenue.
caller: received, holding at perimeter.
operator: one fillmore fire department member was shot and is on the way to the hospital.
caller: 117 responding to the hospital to secure the person.
operator: copy, the scene is now clear for the bus to respond.
caller: sending a stretcher down the block now.
operator: all units stand by for further instructions.
caller: 6751 operators are responding down.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, we do. we have a plane that went down in munson park.
operator: a plane went down in munson park?
caller: it went down. it crashed. it's on fire.
operator: okay, we have emergency services on the way. thank you very much.
caller: thank you. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, an airplane just went down at munson park. we're right here right now.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. stay safe.
caller: okay, we'll do. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, a plane just crashed at munson park.
operator: do you know what kind of plane it was?
caller: it looked like a single-engine plane, maybe a four-seater.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. can i get your name and phone number, please?
caller: my name is jeff smith. my phone number is 734-799-1067.
operator: okay, we've got help on the way. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, this is bob. i'm out here behind munson park, and an aircraft just crashed back here.
operator: yep, we have help on the way.
caller: it doesn't look like anyone survived.
operator: okay, i appreciate the call. thank you.
caller: okay. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have a plane crash just to the east of custer airport.
operator: we have help on the way. are you at the airport?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: do you know what kind of plane it is or how many passengers?
caller: it's a malibu, maybe three passengers.
operator: all right, what's your name, sir?
caller: i'm john ripple.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: 384-961-616.
operator: okay, thanks. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire at munson park.
operator: yep, we got it, ma'am.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, you had a plane crash in munson park off monroe custer.
operator: yes, we have reports of it. do you know if anyone's hurt?
caller: i think it's beyond hurt.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm here at the police station, monroe falls.
operator: okay, what's wrong?
scenario:medical
caller: i killed my sister. i'm turning myself in.
operator: where did it happen?
caller: at my house.
operator: where do you live?
caller: 247 monroe falls avenue.
operator: how did you kill her?
caller: i strangled her.
operator: what apartment number?
caller: it's not an apartment, 247 monroe falls.
operator: when did you do this?
caller: i just did it this morning.
operator: how old is your sister?
caller: she's 32.
operator: how did you strangle her?
caller: i just, i got angry and i strangled her. we had an argument.
caller: she said she was going to hurt my mom and everything, and i just lost it.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: hanley.
operator: hanley? can you spell that for me?
caller: yeah, h-a-n-l-e-y.
operator: are you calling from your cell phone?
caller: yes.
operator: are you okay?
caller: yeah, i'm just frantic. i just panicked. i just lost it.
operator: okay. are you on any medication?
caller: i take some steroidal medication and stuff like that.
operator: what's that for?
caller: you might need to get someone.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an emergency. there's a shooting out on rock hill road at 6th hill road.
operator: and do you need police, fire, or an ambulance?
caller: i need police and an ambulance. there's been a shooting. please hurry.
operator: ma'am, what's the address you're calling from?
caller: hurry, he's bleeding, hurry.
operator: ma'am, how old is he?
caller: he's 59 going on 60.
operator: are you with him now, ma'am?
caller: i'm in the other room. i've got to get to him.
operator: okay, can you get in there with him, ma'am?
operator: who shot him?
caller: it was an accident.
operator: okay. is he awake?
caller: no, he's bleeding and he's shot in the head. hurry!
operator: okay, ma'am, is he breathing?
caller: sue. sue. oh, god. sue. oh, god. sue, can you hear me? oh, god. sue, can you hear my voice?
operator: hello? ma'am, it's going to take a bit of time for help to get there. stay with me.
operator: hello? hello.
operator: walton county 999. is this sue?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, sue, you just hung up on me. i'm still here until the medics get there. i need you to tell me what's going on, ma'am.
caller: he's dead.
operator: okay, can you tell me who shot him?
caller: i don't know.
operator: sue, who shot him?
caller: we were both in here. and he was playing quick draw.
operator: okay, he was playing quick draw. what kind of gun?
caller: he had a .45.
operator: okay, where is the .45 now?
caller: i don't know.
operator: you don't know where the gun is right now, ma'am?
caller: no.
caller: and i have a .38.
operator: you have a .38? he said they were both loaded?
caller: yes, we were just playing. i don't know.
operator: okay. ma'am, i need you to tell me what your house looks like.
caller: it's gray.
operator: is it a mobile home?
caller: no.
operator: okay. is it a gray, two-story, brick house or a wood house?
caller: one story. it's a wood house.
operator: are there any vehicles in the driveway?
caller: yes.
operator: what kind of vehicles are in the driveway?
caller: a white truck.
operator: is it a large truck or a small truck?
caller: a small one.
operator: okay. sue, it's very important. i need you to tell me where your .38 is.
caller: it's in the living room somewhere.
operator: okay. he had the .45 and you had the .38?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, but you're not sure where his gun is?
caller: no.
caller: the police are here now. can i call my daughter?
operator: okay, sue, i need to speak to the police when they get there. let me speak to one of them when they come in the house.
caller: they're in the driveway.
operator: okay, i need to talk to them when they come in the house. i can't release the line until i speak to one of them, okay?
caller: i need to call my daughter.
operator: you can do that after i talk to the police, ma'am.
caller: i got my little dog.
operator: okay, i need to talk to one of the deputies when they arrive. let me speak to them.
operator: is there anyone else in the house, ma'am?
caller: no.
operator: are you sure that he's passed away, ma'am? do you think he's beyond help?
caller: yeah.
caller: i gotta go now.
operator: let me speak to one of the officers, ma'am.
operator: sue? sue?
operator: sue? you want me to disconnect?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 517 west doty street.
operator: can you repeat the address?
caller: 517 west doty street.
operator: is there an apartment number?
caller: it's the lower flat, apartment one.
operator: okay, what's the phone number you're calling from, please?
caller: 715-305-2584.
operator: okay, what is your name?
caller: jordan gonerang.
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i just came home, the door was busted in, and my girlfriend's been shot.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: yep.
operator: are you with her right now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she is 19, no, she's 21.
operator: 21?
caller: yes.
operator: is she conscious?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: okay, stay on the phone, okay?
operator: are you safe where you are right now?
caller: i think so.
operator: is the person that did this still nearby?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, i'm sending an ambulance to help you. i want you to stay on the line with me so i can tell you what to do next, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i want you to get as close to her with the phone as you can, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: are you right by her now?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, i want you to lay her flat on her back on the ground.
caller: okay.
operator: remove any pillows.
caller: okay.
operator: i need you to kneel next to her and look in her mouth for any food or vomit. is there anything?
caller: no.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: just so you know, there's an ambulance on the way and the officers are also on the way, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is that you standing by the window?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i want you to come out right now so they can get in there to help her, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: the officer told me to hang up.
operator: alright, goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is 946 west dallas street, number 6. ems please.
operator: okay. tell me exactly what happened.
caller: my husband's eyes are rolling back and he's not breathing right.
operator: i need somebody there immediately.
operator: they're already on their way. i'm going to ask you some questions to help him until they get there, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are you with him now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 26.
operator: is he awake?
caller: his chest is expanding, but he's not awake.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: barely, please.
operator: the paramedics are already on their way. is his breathing completely normal?
caller: no, it's not.
operator: okay, is he changing color?
caller: he's getting red and sweating.
operator: does he have a history of heart problems?
caller: no, he does not.
operator: the paramedics are on their way. stay on the line with me and i'll tell you what to do next.
caller: okay.
operator: are you right by him now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: lay him flat on his back and remove any pillows.
caller: okay, i've done that.
operator: place one hand on his forehead and your other hand under his neck, then tilt his head back. check if you can feel or hear any breathing.
caller: no, i can't.
operator: listen carefully, i'm going to tell you how to do compressions. place the heel of your hand on the breastbone in the center of his chest, right between the nipples. put your other hand on top of that hand. push hard and fast, at least twice per second, and two inches deep. let the chest come all the way up between pumps. we're going to do this 600 times or until help takes over. count out loud so i can keep track with you.
caller: okay, starting now. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
operator: keep going. count out loud so i know how much you're doing.
caller: two, three, four, five, six, he's trying to catch his breath.
operator: that's okay. you still need to pump his chest.
caller: i'm going, i'm going.
operator: what did he do?
caller: he's breathing loud and hard.
operator: it could be from the chest compressions. keep pumping his chest.
caller: okay, i'm going.
caller: one, two, three, four, six, two, three...
operator: i know it seems like a long time, but it's only been a couple of minutes. you're doing fine, just keep going until help takes over.
caller: okay. are you going to tell me when they're outside?
operator: is your front door unlocked?
caller: no.
operator: when they pull up, unlock your front door and come right back to him, but keep pumping his chest until then.
caller: okay, he keeps trying to breathe.
operator: that means he's still struggling. keep pumping.
operator: i know it's hard, but you're doing great. keep going.
caller: okay, come on, derek, wake up!
operator: the fire department just pulled up. go unlock the door and come right back to him.
caller: okay.
operator: are you back with him?
caller: they're going upstairs right now.
operator: go back to your husband and start compressions again until they take over.
caller: okay, do you want me to hang up now?
operator: are they with you now?
caller: yes, they are.
operator: okay, you did a great job. goodbye.
caller: thank you, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, this is a student from sparks middle school.
operator: can you please speak up? i can't hear you well.
caller: this is a student from sparks middle school. can you please send police out here? there's a kid with a gun.
operator: okay, where exactly are they with the gun?
caller: huh?
operator: where exactly at the school are they with the gun?
caller: by the basketball court.
operator: by the basketball court? okay, i need you to stay on the line. don't hang up, okay? hold on one second.
caller: 999 emergency.
caller: this is joe pizarre, a teacher at sparks middle, and we have some kids outside who had a gun pointed at them, so we're locked down in the building.
operator: okay, so you're locked down. have you called the school police?
caller: we're locked down and trying to get through to them. we have 999 calls coming in.
operator: i have fire, medics, and police en route. we will get a hold of school police as well. stay safe.
caller: okay, thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a kid with a gun at the basketball courts.
operator: okay, do they still have the gun? is anyone injured?
caller: i don't know, we're all scared and crammed here. please come quickly.
operator: we already have police and medics en route. i just need more information if you have any.
caller: i think somebody has been injured, but i'm not sure.
operator: okay, thank you. we'll get someone out there as soon as possible.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is leah from school police. you guys have sparks middle?
operator: we do. we have multiple calls and have a teacher and student down. police are en route.
caller: do you have any description of the suspect?
operator: no, i don't have any descriptions yet. we're working on getting more information.
caller: the shooter is in the cafeteria area.
operator: okay, the shooter is in the cafeteria area with a victim. we'll inform our units.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is pam calling from sparks middle school. we have a shooting at our school.
operator: you have a shooting? is anyone injured?
caller: we have a teacher down.
operator: okay, let me transfer you to emergency services. hold on one second.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody brought a gun to school. they shot a teacher.
operator: the teacher is down?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, we'll get someone out there right away. you're at sparks middle school?
caller: yes. they shot again.
operator: okay, we'll get someone out there, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: uh-huh, bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is at the venice airport. we have an aircraft declaring an emergency that's going to land on the beach at venice, close to the airport. i'm not sure exactly where he is.
operator: okay, you said he's going to be landing on the beach?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i've got 101 north esplanade. do you know the cross street?
caller: i don't know. he's trying to make the airport. he says he's not going to make the airport, but he's going to be on the beach.
operator: okay, hold on just one second.
scenario:medical
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: how many are on board?
caller: okay, i've got another plane that's going to try to see if they've already gone down.
operator: okay, what's your phone number?
caller: our number here is...
operator: okay, and just to clarify, you're not certain if it's actually crashed on the beach?
caller: i do not know yet. he had declared an emergency on the unicom. we monitor unicom here. he declared an emergency. i got his n number, but he's not answering me now. i'm trying to see how many are on board. i've got another plane that's going to see if he can find them.
operator: venice unicom, helicopter aero med here. let's helicopter calling venice. go ahead, please.
caller: we're just about 10 east of the field and was monitoring that traffic. could you use our assistance?
operator: yes, sir, please. he declared an emergency, but i haven't gotten any other information. do you know if he was north or south of the field?
caller: no, sir, i do not. he just said that he was trying to make the field but is not going to make the field.
operator: okay, we've got a call on the beach. he is on the beach. the wheels are down and there are people around the airplane.
caller: okay, we're in location for the airport. is he north or south of us?
operator: about a mile south of the airport on the beach.
caller: okay, thank you very much.
operator: you're welcome. okay, they're saying a mile south of the airport on the beach. what's the registration number?
caller: yeah, it was 886 charlie.
operator: okay, what type of aircraft is involved? large, small, or military?
caller: stand by, i can look it up for you if you want it. do you want me to?
operator: if you can, that would be helpful.
caller: okay, the tail number on that plane was 886 charlie. it's a piper 28 181, which is a piper archer.
operator: okay, so it's a low-wing four-seater.
caller: correct.
operator: is the aircraft on fire, do you know?
caller: no, nobody said it was on fire. there are people around it, so you'll probably get another 999 call.
operator: okay, do you know if it's a single engine?
caller: it is a single engine, yes.
operator: and do we know how much fuel is on board?
caller: we do not.
operator: do you know if there are any dangerous goods or hazardous materials on board?
caller: i do not know.
operator: and do you know how many souls are on board?
caller: we do not.
operator: okay, we do already have units on the way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: i'll tell you exactly what to do next. i'm going to let you go. help is on the way. if you have any further information, please call us back.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: and what was your location?
caller: i'm at the venice airport. i operate unicom here.
operator: okay, we have units on the way now and possibly on scene.
caller: okay, perfect. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye.
caller: a small plane crash on caspersen beach.
operator: okay, i'm sorry, which beach?
caller: caspersen, correct. are you there?
operator: one second for me. all right, we've had people saying it's on venice beach. are you on caspersen beach?
caller: yes. if you go to the end of harbor drive.
operator: i'm sorry, your phone broke up. what did you say?
caller: we're south of the airport.
operator: okay. hold on one second for me, okay?
caller: yep.
operator: is the plane still in the water?
caller: it hit the sand right at the shoreline. it hit the water and kind of rolled up on the sand. people are running down to it. i'm not quite down yet.
operator: is there anyone coming out of the plane that you can tell?
caller: i can't tell just yet, but i assume there are people.
operator: what color is the plane?
caller: i believe it's white. i'm trying to see it from the distance. white with a blue stripe, i think.
operator: was there anyone else near the plane when it crashed? were there any bystanders?
caller: hard to tell, it's about 200 yards in front of me. there are so many people standing around. i see a guy down on his knees.
operator: what is your name and phone number for our records?
caller: phone number.
operator: we do have fire units on the way out there as well as law enforcement.
caller: okay.
operator: if you could, it would help them if you could flag them down and direct them, just in case they have a hard time locating it.
caller: okay, very good. thank you.
operator: thank you, sir. bye.
caller: we have a plane, we're on the beach. you need to come immediately.
operator: hello, i can't hear you. where are you?
caller: we're on caspersen beach right now.
operator: okay. is this about the plane crash?
caller: yes. my friend's husband.
operator: we have help on the way right now. are you involved in the situation at all?
caller: what's that?
operator: are you involved in this situation other than being a bystander?
caller: it's my friend's husband. his daughter is with him, and they are here.
operator: okay, so are you with the people who are injured right now?
caller: yes.
operator: are they still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: how old are they?
caller: the father is 38.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: yes, serious bleeding right now.
operator: is he completely alert?
caller: he was.
operator: and what part of the body is injured?
caller: he's hurt badly on his back.
operator: how old is the daughter?
caller: the daughter is nine.
operator: okay, like i said, help is on the way. there's been multiple callers on this. we're getting out there as quickly as possible.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: are you with both of the injured people right now?
caller: yes, we're with them right now.
operator: stay on the line. i'm going to tell you exactly what to do next. don't move them unless they're in danger.
caller: oh my god.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: yes, they're giving him mouth-to-mouth now.
operator: who's giving him mouth-to-mouth?
caller: a bystander is.
operator: why are they putting him on his side?
caller: they said something about shade.
operator: is someone medically trained there?
caller: no.
operator: okay, we have to continue cpr right now. but why is he being turned on his side?
caller: i am not sure.
operator: just make sure they don't move him unless it's absolutely necessary.
caller: okay, nobody move him.
operator: is someone giving him mouth-to-mouth right now?
caller: yes.
operator: is he not breathing at all?
caller: he is breathing, but barely.
operator: okay, tell the people not to give him mouth-to-mouth if he is breathing.
caller: okay, nobody give him mouth-to-mouth, they said.
operator: how long until the ambulance gets to you?
caller: they were on their way since before you called. they're getting there as quickly as possible. where exactly on the beach are you located?
caller: on caspersen beach.
operator: where on caspersen beach are you? are you near the parking lot?
caller: we're at the southernmost point, where the road ends.
operator: okay, start walking south, and we're about 1,200 meters away. you'll see the plane down there.
caller: okay.
operator: help is on the way now. are you with the injured person also?
caller: no, i'm close to the injured people.
operator: how many people are injured?
caller: there's two. i believe the male is 38 years old and the female is nine years old.
operator: okay, what's the extent of her injuries?
caller: internal injuries.
operator: was she actually hit by the plane?
caller: yes.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: yes, she is.
operator: is she conscious?
caller: yes, rapid pulse, difficult breathing, and she's conscious.
operator: is she conscious?
caller: she is unconscious right now.
operator: we do have an ambulance up in the parking lot. can someone go up to the parking lot and direct the paramedics to the patients as quickly as possible?
caller: yes, three minutes away, about 1,200 meters. someone will meet them.
operator: thank you very much.
caller: you're welcome. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a gun range officer that got shot in the head.
operator: i'm sorry, what's your address?
caller: we're at the last stop on highway 93.
operator: okay, i'm getting medical on the line. hold on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
operator: mojave county with a transfer. we're at the last stop on highway 93. a male subject's been shot in the head. hello?
caller: hello, is this the last stop?
operator: yes, it is. is he breathing?
caller: yes, he is. he's having convulsions.
operator: okay, do you need to send ems right away?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: alright, are you applying pressure to the wound?
caller: i can't. i have nothing to apply pressure with.
operator: do you have any kind of clothing or towels?
caller: yes, i do.
operator: okay, if you can get clothing or towels and bunch them up to apply pressure.
operator: we have ems on the way, okay?
caller: okay, i'll do that.
operator: alright, thank you.
caller: sir? the last stop, 17 miles northwest.
operator: alright, we need an ambulance to the last stop on north u.s. highway 93 immediately. we have someone shot.
caller: yes, please send an ambulance asap.
operator: do you have a call open?
caller: i'm sorry, i'm talking to the other dispatcher. we need an ambulance immediately.
operator: yes, we're getting medical out there. stay on the line.
caller: take him to the restaurant. at the gun range.
operator: we're getting medical on the way. i'm not going to hang up with you.
operator: alright, we have a report of an accidental shooting at the gun range. we have medical on the way.
caller: yes, i'm still here. he's still breathing.
operator: can you tell me where he was shot?
caller: in the head, on the side of the head.
operator: what's his name?
caller: roger.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's in his late 30s.
caller: i need a sheriff sent out to a shooting range for an accidental shooting. do you have them coming?
operator: yes, sir. medical and dps and sheriffs are all on their way.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
caller: hey, this is rick at the last stop. we need a helicopter. an ambulance isn't going to work.
operator: okay, rick. we've got one on the way.
caller: where is the helicopter? we need it now.
operator: let me get medical back on the line for you. hold on, please.
operator: mojave county, reference the last stop, sir. they need the helicopter now.
caller: okay. is he still breathing?
operator: yes, he is. are you applying pressure to the wound?
caller: yes, i am, but he's convulsing and choking on his own spit.
operator: are you able to lean him on his side so the spit drains out of his mouth?
caller: yes, i am. when he bleeds through the cloth, do i put another on top?
operator: yes, apply more on top but do not peel it away.
caller: okay, you're okay, charlie. you're okay.
caller: please hurry up. we've got medical on the way. we're bending his knee.
operator: is he able to speak?
caller: no, he's completely unconscious.
operator: just keep an eye on his breathing, okay?
caller: alright.
operator: what's the eta on the helicopter?
operator: i'm not sure. we have people coming by ground as well.
caller: alright. tell them to hurry up.
operator: they're on their way, sir.
operator: are you inside the facility?
caller: no, we're outside on the range.
operator: alright. when he bleeds through the cloth, apply more on top. do not peel it away.
caller: okay. you're alright, charlie, hang in there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a... okay. i'm at wildcat haven. we've had one of our keepers get attacked. i need an ambulance.
operator: okay. i'm going to get you over to the correct fire dispatch. just one moment for me, okay?
caller: i understand, sir.
operator: i don't dispatch medical for that area. i'm transferring you. stay on the line, okay?
caller: please hurry.
operator: we are hurrying.
operator: i'm with medical transfer, 31369 southwest heater road at wildcat haven. i'm going to stay on the line and monitor in case any police need information. go ahead, sir.
caller: hello? i'm going on. i have a keeper at wildcat haven who was attacked, i guess. i just got home here, and i think she's dead, but please hurry.
operator: how was she attacked?
caller: we have cougars. we rescue them.
operator: by a cougar, i believe?
caller: yes. i'm going back down. i need you guys here. i've got to go back down to her.
operator: she's down in the enclosure?
caller: yes. i'm going down to get her.
operator: can you hear me?
caller: yeah, i can hear you. i'm on a cordless phone. it's going to run out in a minute here.
operator: okay, she's in the cat enclosure?
caller: she's in the cat enclosure. i'm going to get her out if i can. i'm going to lose you here.
operator: i can hear you, yes. we're on our way. how do we get in the gate?
caller: i can't see. i'm going back down. it's dark.
operator: are you in a safe position to be able to go in by yourself?
caller: no, i'm here.
operator: okay, we don't want you to get hurt.
caller: i hear what you're saying. get out of here! oh my god! oh my god, oh my god, oh my god!
operator: we have help on the way over there to you. are you in the enclosure right now?
caller: i'm back out.
operator: is your friend still in the enclosure?
caller: i got her out.
operator: can we try cpr or is she beyond help?
caller: no, she's gone.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: mark powell.
operator: is anyone else in danger at this point?
caller: nobody's in danger.
operator: so you think that she is beyond help?
caller: yes, i do.
operator: i'm sorry. can i start getting support over for you to talk to, like a chaplain or something? can i call somebody for you?
caller: i don't know.
operator: hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i need the police to come to my house right away.
caller: my daughter's boyfriend is here.
caller: he's in the room, and he has a gun.
caller: i have a restraining order against him, and he's not supposed to be here.
caller: he's in our apartment.
caller: hello?
caller: he's in the room right now, and he has a gun.
caller: he has a gun in his pocket, and he's in one of our bedrooms.
operator: what's he doing with the gun?
caller: he held it up to my daughter's head and is threatening her.
caller: he's in our apartment and won't get out.
operator: okay, what's your name?
scenario:domestic
operator: ma'am, i'm going to get some information from you. i want you to stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: did you see him take the gun out?
caller: no, i just got home and he's here. he's locked himself in.
operator: how do you know that he has a gun?
caller: he's here. do you want to talk to my daughter?
operator: i thought she was in the room with him.
caller: no, we're in a separate bedroom.
operator: okay. let me talk to her.
caller: hello?
operator: hi, does he have a gun?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, did he hold it to your head?
caller: yes, ma'am. i have a restraining order against him, and he's not supposed to be here.
operator: how did you get away from him?
caller: we were just talking and then he put it down. i was trying to be nice and say i would do what he said.
operator: what room are you all locked in?
caller: we're locked in my mom's room.
caller: but i have a restraining order against him, and he's not supposed to be around me and my kids.
caller: i was trying to be nice and let him talk to the kids, but he took it too far.
operator: what's your name?
operator: what's your date of birth, sweetie?
caller: january 28, 1987.
operator: where did you see him put the gun?
caller: he put it back in his pocket, his right pocket i think.
operator: is he still in your bedroom?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: can you describe what your boyfriend is wearing?
caller: he's wearing a black shirt.
operator: what about his pants?
caller: long black shorts.
operator: long black shorts?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: is he wearing sandals?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what's his name? is he white, black, or hispanic?
caller: he's black.
operator: do you know his date of birth?
operator: do you know what kind of gun it is?
caller: i don't know anything about guns.
operator: is it a black gun, a silver gun?
caller: it was a little handgun.
caller: where are you going, mommy? no, stay. what if he finds you?
operator: i have officers in the area, but i need you all to stay in one room, so i know where everybody's at.
caller: okay.
caller: stay here, she said stay.
operator: if i'm at your front door, where is he in relation to the house?
caller: once you come in the door, you go around by the tv and make a right. it's the first door straight ahead.
operator: you said past the tv?
caller: yes, once you come in, the tv is on your right. then there's a hallway to the right, keep going straight to the first door.
operator: where are you in relation to the front door?
caller: he's in here. hurry up, please.
operator: okay, what's he doing?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: units in the area of newburgh and 264.
operator: i'm getting out on newburgh.
caller: still in our police car, on town.
operator: razor case subject has stolen a marked police car. he's westbound on waterson from newburgh.
caller: channel.
operator: be advised in reference to the hold-up alarm at wendy's.
caller: we're 1050 and in the ditch.
operator: razor k, advising 1050 at preston in the ditch.
caller: continuing on. he might be trying to make his way back down.
operator: one person highway north-south, equipment 5621 northbound.
caller: correction on the address, 1624.
operator: equipment number on the police car, 5621.
caller: the 4th division unit, starting for preston.
operator: 411 adam, on preston.
caller: vehicle pursuit passing audubon parkway, speed about 105 miles an hour.
operator: northbound on preston, passing eastern.
caller: subject is in a marked police car.
operator: equipment number 3621. make sure all cars know he’s in a marked car.
caller: the shotgun is locked in the rack.
operator: northbound on bradley, west on brandeis.
caller: lost visual at first and oak.
operator: northbound on 2nd coming up on broadway.
caller: 14 baker, gray or white car?
operator: white car, lights on, northbound on 2nd.
caller: i no longer have visual.
operator: last known location was northbound.
caller: circling back onto 65, northbound.
operator: getting off jackson charles.
caller: eastbound on 10th street, passing wall.
operator: jacksonville takeover.
caller: south down on pratt from 10th street.
operator: westbound on south alley, back up to 10th street.
caller: westbound on 10th back towards 65.
operator: southbound on 65.
caller: shutting down at the bridge.
operator: officers to set up on the kentucky side of 65.
caller: taking second street bridge.
operator: off at main from second street.
caller: south down towards the river.
operator: eastbound on market.
caller: westbound near rocky's.
operator: subject in the river with a squad car.
caller: subject in the river on the indiana side.
operator: 134 adam, do you have a visual?
caller: got him, gunpoint.
operator: 134 adam, shots fired!
caller: suspect down in the water.
operator: no officers injured, suspect down in the river.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, good wine circle. i need a paramedic right now, please.
operator: okay, what's the address?
caller: school-le-road, good wine circle. i cannot give you the exact address right now. i need a paramedic immediately.
operator: are you at a house?
caller: no, i'm in the middle of the road. please, please.
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i don't know what happened. my cousin is lying here. i need you to bring a paramedic right now.
operator: what's he doing? is he just laying in the middle of the road?
caller: please, he's not breathing. i need help right now.
operator: ma'am, take a deep breath. we're getting help to you. i'm just trying to figure out what's going on.
caller: he's not breathing. he's bleeding. please, help right now.
operator: okay, do you know why he's not breathing?
caller: i don't know, he's just not breathing and he's bleeding.
operator: help is on the way. what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i can't remember the number right now. just send an ambulance.
operator: what is your name?
caller: tachina simmons. my cousin is lying here, bleeding and not breathing. i need an ambulance.
operator: i understand. are you with him now?
caller: yes, i'm right beside him.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's about 32.
operator: is he awake?
caller: no, his eyes are open but he's not breathing. he doesn't have a pulse.
operator: you need to stay calm. help is on the way. i'm going to tell you what to do next. lay him flat on his back on the ground and remove any pillows.
caller: okay, he's on his back now.
operator: listen carefully, and i'll guide you on how to do chest compressions.
caller: he doesn't need chest compressions. he's dead. i don't feel a pulse.
operator: even if there's a faint pulse, chest compressions can help. do you want to try?
caller: i don't know if it'll help, but i'll try anything.
operator: did he get shot?
caller: yes, he got shot.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: hello, this is 999. i need an ambulance to good wine circle. please, hurry up.
operator: what is the exact address?
caller: i don't know the exact address. just send help to good wine circle.
operator: are you in a vehicle or on the road?
caller: on the road. my niece is here with me.
operator: stay on the line with me. this is not slowing help down. can you tell me exactly what happened?
caller: i heard some gunshots. then my niece said someone is lying in the road, bleeding.
operator: alright, help is on the way. you're saying you heard gunshots and now there's a male lying in the road. is he shot?
caller: i think so. my niece is checking.
operator: what part of good wine circle are you on?
caller: you'll see a gray dodge ram. he's lying beside it.
operator: is your niece with him?
caller: yes, she's checking on him now.
operator: what's your name?
caller: robert.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's 515 east rancho. i have people in my yard and the dogs in my yard from next door. i don't know what’s going on, but there's something happening here.
operator: okay, are you hearing yelling? what's going on?
caller: well, there are a bunch of them yelling about something. i don't know what. i'm going out to see what's going on.
operator: okay, don't approach them. do not approach them. go back in your house.
caller: they're messing up my gardens.
operator: you need to go back in your house. i'm going to get officers en route.
caller: it's too late now. we've got one down.
operator: go back in your house. what did you say?
caller: the guy that was in my yard started attacking me.
caller: he jumped on me.
operator: you need to go back in your house.
caller: well, you better... i'm in the house now. i got blood all over me.
operator: were you attacked by the dog?
caller: no, the guy attacked me.
operator: i'm advising the rp to go back in his house. he will not listen. mike, what's your phone number?
caller: huh? what is your phone number?
operator: okay. did you go back in your house?
caller: i'm in the house.
caller: the male subject attacked him. he is injured.
operator: who attacked you?
caller: the guy next door.
operator: who is it?
caller: i don't know who it is.
operator: where are you hurt?
caller: his blood is all over. it's in my house. it's on my hands. it's on my guns.
operator: okay, why is his blood on you?
caller: well, because he was that close, that's why.
operator: okay, did you hit him? what happened?
caller: he was attacking, but i shot him.
operator: rp shot the male subject. i repeat, male subject has been shot. what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it's a black.
operator: where is your gun?
caller: it's in my house.
operator: is it next to you?
caller: it's on my table. i'm having a problem. i got a heart thing, too. my heart's bugging me. i got to sit down.
operator: okay. take a few deep breaths.
caller: i can't understand you.
operator: mike, i want you to sit down and take a few deep breaths.
caller: yeah.
operator: where are you in the house?
caller: i'm in my kitchen.
operator: okay. take a few deep breaths trying to calm down.
caller: i'm having some chest pains right now.
operator: okay. is there any other injury?
caller: i have to hang up. i need to get some other stuff here.
operator: no, mike, i need you to stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: i can't. i got to get some medication.
operator: mike? mike.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please send medical. what is it, a medical emergency or something else?
caller: there's a bad fight next door. one person is on the ground, and the other just got up.
operator: what address?
caller: our address is 5304 milegall road. it's happening next door.
caller: i think their last name is cross or something similar.
operator: is it directly across the street or next door to you?
caller: right next door. there's a red truck outside.
caller: please hurry, i think he just ran someone over with the red truck.
operator: he ran over somebody?
caller: yes, he's running them over in the driveway. please hurry!
operator: ma'am, listen to me. i need to get some more information. is it right next door?
caller: yes, right next door. he's running them over!
operator: please stay calm. so the person is in a red truck, running someone over repeatedly?
caller: yes, right next door.
operator: if i'm looking at your house, is it on the right or the left?
caller: it's on the right if you're looking at my house.
operator: and it's a red truck doing this?
caller: yes. please hurry!
operator: they are already en route. what's your name, ma'am?
caller: my husband's going out with a gun. please hurry!
operator: they are already en route. what's your phone number?
caller: 280-7314. bill, get over here! hurry!
operator: ma'am, they're already en route and moving as fast as they can. i need to ask some more questions.
operator: is the person who was run over getting up?
caller: no, they are not getting up.
operator: is your husband back inside with the gun?
caller: yes, he's back inside.
caller: wait, it might have been a dog he ran over. we're not sure.
operator: ma'am, they are already en route. i need to be sure. so it might be a dog?
caller: we're not sure, but it might be a dog. the truck is still there.
operator: so the suspect vehicle is a red jeep?
caller: yes, it looks like a red jeep.
operator: do you know the people over there?
caller: we do, but not very well. the suspect's first name might be josh.
operator: do you see any weapons?
caller: no, but someone said he might have one. he's acting completely insane.
caller: about two or three years ago, his dad shot himself over there.
operator: alright. my officers are en route. is there anything else happening now?
caller: no, but if he comes over here, i will shoot him.
operator: let's not discuss that. just tell me what's happening in the yard.
caller: i can't see anyone getting hit now. maybe he went back inside.
operator: so josh went back into the house?
caller: yes, i think so.
operator: do you have josh's last name?
caller: no, i don't.
operator: alright, if anything else happens, call us back on 999.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, i think someone's in.
operator: okay, did you hear the front door?
caller: i'm hearing noise from lights, like, the doors and the windows.
operator: is the front door locked?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, where are you right now?
caller: in a closet.
scenario:fire
operator: four deputies and a canine are on the way to you, okay?
operator: they are there, okay, but they're out front, all right?
operator: they're looking around your house trying to find somebody, okay? so we don't want you going out.
caller: the police are outside?
operator: they're checking, okay?
caller: no.
caller: um, if you go down the hall, i'm the second door to the left. um, i'm just kind of scared to be honest.
operator: one of the deputies is walking around your house, trying to find a way to get in so that he can get you out.
caller: they're inside. should i go out?
operator: hold on just a second, okay? just stay right there.
operator: i let them know what bedroom you're in, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: no, they just said wait right there. if they didn't tell you to come out, then don't come out.
caller: yeah, i'm not.
caller: okay, they're taking me outside.
operator: okay.
caller: do i hang up?
operator: okay.
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: hi, i'd like to just report an incident. i'm in rossmoor. i'm cleaning my swimming pool and two african-american guys come jumping over the wall.
operator: hold on one second.
operator: can you describe the first guy?
caller: he's a male, black, looks like they're early 20s.
operator: we have units that were in the area already because someone called, so this is kind of like a secondary part of this. we're just trying to locate them.
operator: we have a helicopter trying to find them right now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's 188 and 92 indian springs.
operator: okay. what's going on there?
caller: i just shot my mother and my nephew.
operator: you shot your mother and your nephew?
caller: yes, i committed a double homicide.
operator: okay. do you know if they are alive at this point?
caller: i don't think so. i shot them multiple times.
operator: okay. what's your name?
caller: my name is adrian graham wallace.
operator: where are you right now, sir?
caller: i'm at my home.
operator: what did you shoot them with?
caller: a rifle.
operator: where is the gun now?
caller: it's on the ground, near the homicide scene.
operator: is it inside the house or outside?
caller: it's in the front of the house.
operator: are you inside now?
caller: i'm in the garage, smoking a cigarette. my last cigarette, i suppose.
operator: are you armed at all now?
caller: no. if the cops treat me with respect, i'll go ahead and be a prisoner.
operator: is anybody else there with you?
caller: no.
operator: can i ask your date of birth?
caller: i don't remember. 1971, i think.
operator: okay. so you said that you went crazy, you had some kind of mental break?
caller: well, i'm going to open the garage door. i can't believe i did what i did.
operator: okay. i want to help you as much as i can. whatever you need to tell me...
caller: no, i did what i did. people are dead. it's a criminal act, i committed a crime.
operator: we don't know that. we might be able to help them still.
caller: people are dead.
operator: okay. i'm trying to help you.
caller: multiple repeated crimes, child abuse, stuff like that.
operator: against you?
caller: why are you asking me this stuff? just arrest me. throw me in a cage.
operator: sir, i'm sending people to come help you, okay? they are on the way.
caller: i just committed a double homicide.
operator: i understand. they are coming to help you.
caller: just give me a cop. i surrender.
operator: they are coming as fast as they can, i promise you that.
caller: i was an abused child. my family lied about it, and i snapped.
operator: okay. i hear you. i'm sending officers to you.
caller: just kill me because i'm not going to kill myself.
operator: we don't want to kill you either.
caller: yes, you do.
operator: no, sir, we do not. what has happened to you is horrible.
caller: what part of double homicide do you not understand?
operator: i understand. i know that you had to be hurting to do what you did.
caller: i used to be the good guy. i used to help people. now i'm a murderer.
operator: i understand that you have done something wrong.
caller: do you understand that i just killed two people?
operator: yes, i do. i'm hearing you.
caller: then a bunch of scumbags made it impossible for me. betrayed me for the last time.
operator: i understand. and like i said, officers are on the way.
caller: they're not going to sneak up on me.
operator: they know that you're aware they are coming.
caller: give me handcuffs and a prison cell. shoot me in the head.
operator: nobody wants to kill you.
caller: yes, you do.
operator: nobody wants you dead. what has happened to you is horrible.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i've got a fire.
operator: where's your location?
caller: 2355 south, 1100 west.
operator: okay, slow down. what's on fire?
caller: i have a tank on fire.
operator: is it a tank or a truck?
caller: no, it's a petroleum tank.
operator: a petroleum tank? do we need foam for this?
caller: yes, we need foam.
operator: okay, can you describe the petroleum tank more?
caller: it's a gasoline tank, part of a tank farm.
operator: is it near any structures?
caller: yes, there are rail cars and other oil tanks around.
operator: alright, i'll get them on the way. please keep everyone away from the area.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just came into my house.
operator: what's the address of the emergency?
caller: <provide address>
operator: what's the problem there?
caller: they hit her in the head with something.
operator: what did they hit her in the head with?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: other than being stabbed in the chest, is there anything else?
caller: i mean, stabbing in the chest and the leg.
operator: okay.
operator: please let me know when the deputies are with you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are the deputies with you?
caller: yes. they're in here, but they went through the front door.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, this is 9-9-9, right?
operator: yes, how can i help you?
caller: i need help quickly down at 1385 river road, greedyville, south carolina.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: a guy tried to kill me, and i had to take my gun back from him. i'm bleeding now.
operator: can you tell me where you are exactly?
caller: 1385 river road. it comes off burgess, where river road turns into a dirt road.
operator: got it. what's your name?
caller: my name is paul baker.
operator: mr. baker, what's your phone number?
caller: i don't know my phone number. i’m calling from a cell phone.
operator: okay, and can you tell me what happened again?
caller: a man beat me and took my gun. he wanted to kill me. he's the one who took my truck too.
operator: what kind of truck is it?
caller: it's a 78 model chevy green truck.
operator: who is this man? do you know his name?
caller: i don't know his name. i know him from a bar, but he beat me and took my gun.
operator: where are you bleeding from?
caller: from my head. i'm bleeding a lot.
operator: do you need medical attention?
caller: yes, i'm going back into the house. i don't want trouble, but please send someone quickly.
operator: we're sending someone to you. stay inside and stay safe.
caller: thank you.
operator: do you need an ambulance?
caller: yes, please. the guy came back and i shot him.
operator: you shot him? where is he now?
caller: he's on the ground, in front of my trailer.
operator: what does your house look like?
caller: it's a trailer with a long driveway lined with trees.
operator: okay, we're sending ems and police. is he still conscious?
caller: no, i don't think so. i shot him several times.
operator: what part of his body did you shoot?
caller: in the chest. i used to be a paramedic. he's gone.
operator: we have help on the way, sir.
caller: please hurry.
operator: stay on the line with me. we're almost there.
caller: okay, but my phone connection is not great. i may lose you.
operator: we understand. if you get disconnected and they arrive, stay safe and make sure they know you are unarmed.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, somebody is coming into my house.
operator: what's your address?
caller: it's, um, 5908.
operator: i can't hear you clearly, could you repeat your address?
caller: 5908, 722 and they have a gun.
operator: 5908. is that 70 and 2nd street?
caller: let me out. let me out.
operator: stay on the line with me. what's going on?
caller: i don't know. get out of my house. get out.
operator: you stay in your house, ma'am.
caller: i don't know. they have a gun. get away from me.
caller: let me. get away. get away.
operator: all right, ma'am, did you say 5908 70th and 2nd street?
operator: listen to me. i need to know your address.
caller: do you take 70 seconds?
operator: how many subjects are in the house?
caller: get out.
operator: how many subjects are in the house?
caller: missing.
operator: ma'am, i cannot understand you. please take a deep breath for me.
caller: i can't.
operator: how many subjects are in the house? are you saying there's two people in the house?
caller: i can't. i can't.
operator: please take a deep breath so i can understand you.
caller: i can't. i can't.
operator: what's going on?
caller: i don't know. i think someone broke into my house.
operator: someone broke into your house?
caller: i don't know. it was probably with the garage.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: two officers have been shot on 21st and nelson.
operator: all right, stay on the line. officers have been notified and are on their way.
caller: we have units coming down to 21st and nelson. the officer's been shot there.
operator: we're getting a signal from the vehicle now. witnesses describe a suspect wearing army pants and a black jacket.
caller: should we get anything ready at the hospital?
operator: yes, stand by. everything should be there momentarily.
caller: we just got a call about someone who shot himself in the head on 22nd street between 20th and 19th avenue.
operator: understood. we'll dispatch units to that location.
caller: someone already took the person to the hospital.
operator: all right, are you going down with the officer?
caller: yes, we have a crime scene here, but no one is around.
operator: understood. secure the area and wait for further assistance.
caller: man down over here. need an exact location.
operator: what's the address?
caller: it's 90, 22nd street. we need medical assistance.
operator: units are on their way. what is the suspect's description?
caller: black jacket, army fatigue pants. sounds like the same individual.
operator: affirmative. all units switch to channel 2. all communications redirected to detective bureau.
caller: can we get more personnel at the crime scene?
operator: take a count of uniforms at the scene. we may need additional personnel.
caller: we have a large crime scene here. additional uniforms needed.
operator: i'll notify headquarters to send more units.
caller: update on the officer: shot in the head but not critical.
operator: received. continue monitoring and provide updates.
caller: units, switch back to main channel for further instructions.
operator: all units switch back to the main channel.
caller: do we have any information on the suspect's whereabouts?
operator: no updates yet. keep the area secure.
caller: i'm going back to service from 22nd street.
operator: understood. follow up at the station if needed.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think i need an ambulance. i've got a teenager. he's turning purple in his face. i think he's passed out or something. i don't know.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 16.
operator: and you don't know what's wrong with him?
caller: no.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i don't know. he's turning purple.
caller: it's 725 greenwood circle.
operator: okay, ma'am. calm down, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: just hang on here with me.
caller: okay.
operator: time 1, priority response to 725 greenwood circle.
caller: they're giving him mouth to mouth. hold on.
operator: does he have asthma or anything? why is he not breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: how long has he not been breathing?
caller: i don't know. he looks bad.
operator: does he have a pulse?
caller: not really.
operator: open his airway slightly and feel for breath over his mouth.
caller: wait, let me turn the tv off. i can't hear anything.
operator: okay. breathe into his mouth, do you feel the air going in?
caller: let's take an ambulance so long. we're not doing any good here.
operator: they're just now leaving. it's only been like a minute.
operator: what you need to do is try to do cpr. that's going to be the most important thing.
caller: will you repeat that? my radio is cutting out.
operator: you need to take a full breath in and seal your mouth over his. did you see his chest rise?
operator: put the heel of one hand on the center of his breastbone, right between the nipples. then take your other hand and put it on top of that.
operator: give him two more breaths, slow and deep. watch for his chest to rise.
operator: continue until the ambulance gets there, okay?
operator: if he has a pulse, is he breathing?
caller: no.
operator: when you breathed into his mouth, did his chest rise?
caller: no.
operator: give him two more breaths. can you see his chest rise?
caller: he's not cold.
operator: they're very close. they're in the 900 blocks. continue giving the breaths, okay?
scenario:robbery
caller: okay.
operator: you're doing good. keep going until they arrive.
operator: sorry, we are on the way. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, good afternoon. i live on new york ave in somerset. my husband just came home and when he opened the door, it smelled like gas outside, like in the streets.
operator: like a natural gas smell?
caller: yes, that's right. we didn't know who to call to report this, but you can smell it outside. it’s not in the house yet.
operator: alrighty. what's the address again?
caller: new york avenue, 830.
operator: we will get the gas company to your home and have someone check it out.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
caller: control, i can definitely smell natural gas in the area before i even get out of my car.
operator: really? is it a very strong odor?
caller: yes, very strong. call the gas company immediately and have them respond.
operator: okay, we’ll send somebody out. thank you.
caller: bye.
operator: bye.
caller: there's a very strong natural gas smell. we should have one of these cruisers or fire trucks check it out.
operator: okay, we’ll send somebody out immediately. new england gas emergency has been notified.
operator: engine 6 to control. we can hear it.
caller: new england gas emergency, how can i help you?
operator: hi, we've got a confirmed leak from the fire department.
caller: is it a confirmed leak from the fire department? we will respond to that.
operator: yes, it’s confirmed, and they can hear it hissing. we're sending someone right over.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
caller: yes, i live at the intersection of ronsville.
operator: there's a noticeable natural gas smell. the fire department is on scene on new york avenue.
caller: no, i live on cliff. should i be concerned?
operator: i'll send the fire department up to your location to check it out. it’s better to be safe.
caller: thank you. i didn’t want to dial 999, but i think most of my neighbors have natural gas, and i just stepped out the front door and it’s really obvious.
operator: we’ll send someone right now. stay safe.
caller: thanks a lot.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fort worth police, somebody just got my purse out of the car in front.
operator: somebody just did what?
caller: grabbed my purse out of my car in front of alpha depot.
operator: did you see which way they went?
caller: he's a black guy wearing a black stocking cap, a black leather jacket, and black jeans. he's about 5'9.
operator: and he ran off towards the cinema, the theater?
caller: yes, towards the movie theater.
operator: are you in your car?
caller: yes, i am. i'm in a 2000 buick park avenue, silver in color. my name is valerie pro.
caller: there he goes. he's in blue jeans.
operator: okay. is he on foot?
caller: yes, he's on foot.
caller: where's my purse? give it to me now!
operator: what's happening now?
caller: he's in front of that movie theater. now others are chasing him and he's just walking. he doesn't have my purse.
operator: he doesn't have it? did he throw it somewhere?
caller: yes, apparently he did.
operator: okay, are you still following him?
caller: yes, ma'am, i am, along with two other men.
operator: when you talked to him, what did he say?
caller: he said he had my purse and he wanted me to roll my window down, but i didn't.
caller: i've lost him now. he may have gone into the movie theater.
operator: okay, let me see if anyone else has seen him. did you say it was a black guy with a black stocking cap?
caller: yes, that's right. he grabbed my purse out of my car.
operator: okay, thanks. they've got him.
caller: they do have him?
operator: yes, some civilians have apprehended him. are you at the movie theater now?
caller: yes, we're in the parking lot.
caller: okay, i've got my purse. i need to check my money because i had $300 in here.
operator: you got your purse and your money?
caller: yes, it's all here.
operator: alright. do you need to stay on the line?
caller: no, i've got about five or six men around here. thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my emergency, um, it's at 3209 mink road, coitner's a p.a.
operator: what town or province is that in?
caller: bucks county.
operator: okay, which police department serves that area?
caller: it's the springfield police station.
operator: oh, okay. and what is your cell number?
caller: it's 267-980-8355. i requested the state police to come out.
operator: okay, what is your name?
caller: my name is doreen berkland.
caller: i already contacted the fbi as well.
operator: okay. what do you need the state police for, ma'am?
caller: i shot my husband.
operator: okay. where is he right now?
caller: he's upstairs in the bedroom.
caller: i tried to reach someone i've been in contact with in bethlehem.
operator: okay. is your husband awake and able to speak?
caller: no, he is not.
operator: okay. darlene, what's your last name?
caller: berklin, b-u-r-k-l-a-n-d.
caller: like i said, i called the fbi to find tiffany hill.
operator: why did you call the fbi?
caller: they have been updated. i went to them several times about my ex threatening my life.
caller: i just moved back into our residence because we are getting a divorce and the property wasn't selling because of him.
caller: we had an argument, and i wasn't going to let him come at me again.
operator: okay. i'm having the pennsylvania state police dispatched right now.
caller: could you please ask for mike wolf? he knows about the things my husband was doing.
operator: okay. where is the gun you used?
caller: it's in the kitchen. where do you want me to put it?
operator: leave it where it is.
operator: what kind of gun was it?
caller: it's a handgun. a .38.
caller: my son's here too. he was outside working on his go-kart when the argument started. he's still outside.
caller: he's 18. his name is gabriel.
operator: where are you going to be in the residence?
caller: where do you want me to be?
operator: can you wait outside?
caller: sure, do you want me to be outside?
operator: yes, please stand outside with your son.
caller: okay. do you want me to stay on the phone with you?
operator: yes, stay on the phone with me.
caller: gabe, the police are on the way.
caller: i called the fbi to talk to tiffany, but they can't locate her. she might have been transferred.
operator: do you remember the name of the fbi agent who interviewed you?
caller: anthony, he had an italian last name. i have the notes somewhere.
operator: and what was the pennsylvania state police trooper's name again?
caller: michael wolf. he's out of dublin.
operator: hold on one second.
caller: okay.
caller: my son has nowhere to go. this is his home.
caller: is there a possibility he can stay here after they take me or come back to the house?
operator: what's your son's name?
caller: gabriel.
operator: the decision will be up to the pennsylvania state police when they arrive.
caller: gabriel, can you go to your grandmother's if you need to tonight?
caller: i just asked him if he could stay here. it's going to be up to the state police.
caller: somebody in a blue van is backing up and coming in. gabe, who is that?
operator: hold on one second. what kind of van is it?
caller: it doesn't look like an ambulance. it's a van.
operator: okay, darlene, i'm going to transfer you to the state police. do not hang up.
caller: well, this is a guy in a van, not an ambulance.
operator: i'm transferring you to the state police now. hold on one second. do not hang up.
caller: should i let him in the house? what should i do?
operator: just wait right there. do not hang up.
caller: he says he lives down the road.
operator: tell him to wait. hold on one second.
caller: you live down the road?
caller: you weren't supposed to come here. the state police were supposed to arrive first.
operator: hold on one second. do not hang up.
operator: state police dublin, corporal glide.
operator: hi, it's bucks county 999. we have someone named darlene for you. darlene, are you there?
operator: hello, darlene, the state police are on the line now.
operator: this is corporal glad from the state police.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is calling from captain doug's airboat tour's everglade city.
operator: what is the address of your emergency?
caller: our address is 905 dupont road.
operator: okay.
caller: we've had an airboat accident. i'm not sure if there are injuries.
caller: i don't know to what extent right now. we've got somebody bringing the injured back to our dock. we just need a deputy and ems.
operator: do you know how many people were on board?
caller: i don't know how many people were on the boat. i don't know how many were injured.
caller: i've got a captain from another company bringing the injured to my dock now.
operator: okay.
caller: he had a total of six people on his boat when he left the dock.
operator: so, there were six people on board?
caller: i just don't know how many are injured. sorry, we're crazy right here.
operator: that's all right.
caller: okay, i think the boats are coming in now.
operator: if you could just tell me the extent of the injuries.
caller: i don't have any idea. no, i mean, they're still out in the water.
caller: oh wait a minute, here comes a captain with them now. hold on. let me get outside.
caller: oh, jesus christ, here's my boat captain. it looks like he's lost his hand.
operator: is it the boat captain himself?
caller: yes, it's the boat captain himself. he's lost his hand.
operator: can you get a dry, clean cloth?
caller: i am now. yeah, i've got two captains out there with him.
operator: is it totally off?
caller: the way it looks to me, yes. like i said, i'm trying to get two calls while they're out there.
operator: is everyone conscious?
caller: he's conscious. two men are with him, holding his hand up.
operator: okay, just have them lay down or sit on the floor.
caller: yeah, they're getting him in here now.
operator: okay. thank you.
caller: uh-huh.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a mention 999.
operator: what is the address of the emergency?
caller: see, i think some people are shooting.
operator: okay, give me that address again, please.
caller: okay, and it's a test.
operator: what phone number are you calling from?
caller: please tell somebody to hurry.
operator: do you see anybody shooting or do you hear it only?
caller: i hear it.
operator: what do you hear? how does it sound?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: did you want to leave your name?
caller: yep.
operator: did you want to speak to the police when they got out there?
caller: i'm not sure. i need to call my mom, so…
operator: okay. did you want to speak to the police?
caller: no, can you just please send somebody as soon as possible?
operator: they'll be there as soon as possible, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: all right. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we need to send some officers over here on blueford street. they are shooting like crazy.
operator: blueford and what intersection?
caller: blueford and reginald street.
operator: did you see who is doing the shooting?
caller: no, ma'am. i'm on the floor. they just shooting all around.
operator: do you need me to have an officer come talk to you?
caller: no, ma'am. just tell them to get these folks off the street.
operator: is there anybody hurt in your house?
caller: no, ma'am. just a lot of shooting outside.
operator: okay. they'll be there as soon as possible.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we need an ambulance out here. somebody just got shot.
operator: what is the address of your emergency?
caller: we're at the park, at the basketball courts.
operator: i'm getting help to you. are you with the patient now?
caller: yes, he's bleeding a lot. hurry up.
operator: okay, i'm going to tell you how to help him. just stay on the line with me, okay? how old is he?
caller: i don't know, he's a teenager, maybe?
operator: i'm sending an ambulance while we're talking. is the assailant still nearby?
caller: no, they drove off. it was a drive-by shooting.
operator: do you know what they were driving?
caller: no, i ducked when i heard the shots.
operator: that's okay. is there any serious bleeding?
caller: yes, a lot.
operator: what part of the body was injured?
caller: the leg, i think.
operator: is there more than one wound?
caller: i don't know, there's a lot of blood.
operator: i'm going to tell you how to control the bleeding. do you have a clean, dry cloth or towel?
caller: yes, hang on.
operator: place it on the wound and press down firmly. do not lift it up to look.
caller: okay, i'm doing that now.
operator: is the bleeding controlled?
caller: i think so.
operator: do you see the police?
caller: yes, they're here now.
operator: okay, let them take over. you're doing great.
caller: thank you, ma'am.
operator: you're welcome. take care.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fire department?
operator: yes, how can i help you?
caller: my apartment is on fire.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. don't hang up.
caller: oh, please.
operator: what apartment number are you in?
caller: two-oh-nine.
operator: okay, we've got the fire department on the way. what room are you in?
caller: my bedroom. i'm scared.
operator: are you by yourself?
caller: yes, just me.
operator: are you on the second floor, ma'am?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: okay, stay on the phone. don't hang up. we're getting help to you.
caller: i'm scared. it's smoky.
operator: i know. can you get on the floor for me?
caller: okay.
operator: stay on the floor. is your bedroom door shut?
caller: yes, my bedroom door is shut.
scenario:medical
operator: good. i need you to stay at the bedroom door. feel it. is it hot?
caller: yes, it's hot.
operator: okay, don't open it. get as far away from the bedroom door as you can and stay on the floor.
caller: yes, sir. please, hurry.
operator: get a blanket and put it around yourself.
caller: i'm scared.
operator: i know. we're on the way, honey. you're going to be okay.
caller: oh, please, sir.
operator: are you on the floor?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: do you have a blanket with you?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: okay, can you put that blanket over your mouth and nose like a mask?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: stay on the floor for me, okay? try to breathe slower. it'll help out a lot.
caller: okay.
operator: you're doing great. what's your address?
caller: 123 south main street.
operator: okay, stay right where you are.
caller: i'm so scared.
operator: i know. just stay with me. you're going to be fine. help is on the way.
caller: oh, dear god.
operator: are you okay? can you see any lights on?
caller: no.
operator: okay, stay on the floor. keep your face on the carpet.
caller: i can't breathe.
operator: i know, honey. keep that blanket over your mouth and nose, okay?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: we're on the way. we're going to get you out.
caller: it's so smoky.
operator: i know. just breathe through the blanket.
caller: please come get me. it hurts.
operator: just stay there. you're going to make it.
caller: okay.
operator: what's your name?
caller: nikki.
operator: nikki, i'm jeff. stay with me, honey.
caller: please come.
operator: we're getting there as soon as we can. how old are you, nikki?
caller: i'm 55.
operator: alright, stay with me. keep breathing through the blanket.
caller: help me.
operator: we are. we'll be right there.
caller: i'm on the bed.
operator: are you on the floor now?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: stay where you're at. keep breathing through the blanket.
caller: it's so bad. help me.
operator: stay on the phone. just keep breathing through the blanket.
caller: i can't breathe. help me.
operator: i know, we're coming. stay with me.
caller: please, god, help me.
operator: you're going to be okay. nikki, talk to me. can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: stay awake with me. talk to me.
caller: i'm passing out.
operator: stay with me, nikki. stay awake.
caller: please, hurry.
operator: we are. we're coming. stay with me.
caller: i can't breathe.
operator: i know. stay in that blanket.
caller: please, god, help me.
operator: stay with me, nikki. we're getting there.
caller: none
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a guy stopped me. something's wrong with his wife.
operator: he's doing what?
caller: something's wrong with his wife. he doesn't speak very good english.
operator: medically wrong?
caller: yeah.
operator: where are you at?
caller: on garfield, right by 22 miles, off the side of the road.
operator: you're on garfield, just south of 22?
caller: yeah.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: it's a red jeep.
operator: red jeep. she just had a baby?
caller: yeah, in the car.
operator: is the baby completely out?
caller: yeah. and there's blood and...
operator: okay, okay. the baby's not crying. is the child breathing?
caller: the baby's not crying. it's not breathing right now.
operator: okay, you need to try to stimulate the baby's breathing. rub his back with your fingertips.
caller: rub his back with the fingertips?
operator: is the umbilical cord still attached?
caller: oh, yeah.
operator: try to keep the baby's head supported. hold the baby so the head is supported, okay?
caller: hold them this way. you keep the head supported?
operator: yes, keep the neck and head supported.
caller: got it.
operator: you got any blankets or anything to try to wrap the baby up?
caller: yeah, he's got a blanket.
operator: okay. the cord is not around the neck, right?
caller: no.
operator: is the baby full term?
caller: yes.
operator: did the baby start breathing with the back rubs?
caller: no, it's still not breathing.
operator: how's its color?
caller: pale, very pale.
operator: the cord is not wrapped around its neck or anything, is it?
caller: no.
operator: okay, we need to do some cpr. is the baby laying on its back?
caller: yes.
operator: make sure his mouth is open and nothing's blocking his airway.
caller: nothing's blocking.
operator: okay, put one hand on his forehead and the fingers of your other hand just under the bony part of his chin. tilt his head back just a little, but not too much, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: did the baby make any movement?
caller: no, baby's not breathing.
operator: are you willing to do rescue breaths?
caller: yeah, i can do it.
operator: cover the baby's mouth and nose with your mouth. put two little puffs of air into his mouth, okay? two slow breaths.
caller: alright, i did two slow breaths.
operator: did you see his chest move?
caller: yeah.
operator: is the baby moving?
caller: no, nothing.
operator: okay, we're going to do chest compressions, okay?
caller: wait, yes, the baby is moving!
operator: the baby's moving? is it crying?
caller: yeah, it's like whimpering.
operator: is it breathing?
caller: yes, let me check.
operator: put your ear by her mouth to hear if she's breathing.
caller: okay. she's breathing.
operator: she's breathing?
caller: yes, she's breathing.
operator: got her wrapped up?
caller: yep.
operator: the umbilical cord is still attached, right?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, don't cut it. the baby's still breathing and whimpering?
caller: yes, still breathing and whimpering.
operator: do you have towels or blankets to keep the baby warm?
caller: yes, we have a blanket.
operator: how's mom doing?
caller: she's okay, just worried about the baby.
operator: keep an eye on the baby's breathing.
operator: is the umbilical cord pulsating at all?
caller: i can't tell.
caller: i can hear the ambulance coming.
operator: yes, my partner has dispatched everyone as soon as we started talking. is the baby still breathing and crying?
caller: yes, the baby is okay, still breathing.
operator: great job. is mom still doing okay?
caller: yes, mom's okay.
operator: okay, you'll have officers and deputies arriving soon to help you.
caller: thank you. they're here now.
operator: very good. they will take care of you all.
caller: thank you very much.
operator: you're welcome. great job.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 582 north, 500, 8. roll a cop, roll an ambulance, shots fired. a baby's been hit in the head. please come now.
operator: okay, don't hang up, okay?
caller: please. i need medical help. baby was shot. baby shot. father's trying to shoot himself.
operator: who shot the baby?
caller: the father.
operator: where's he at right now?
caller: where's the baby? ... the baby's in his father's arms.
operator: okay. does he have the gun?
caller: baby's still breathing.
operator: is the baby alive?
caller: he's still breathing, please, hurry.
operator: the baby's still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i want you to watch their breathing for me until they get there, okay?
operator: who shot the baby?
caller: his dad.
operator: and why did he do that?
caller: i have no idea, please.
operator: okay, but he doesn't have the gun any longer, right?
caller: no, he doesn't have it.
operator: okay, i want you to watch the baby and keep watching to make sure the baby's breathing for me, okay? are you doing that for me?
caller: yes, but he's gone.
operator: the baby's gone?
caller: he's been shot in the head. please.
operator: who are you, ma'am?
caller: i'm the grandma.
operator: you're the grandma?
caller: yeah.
operator: and where's the mother at?
caller: i have no idea and i don't care. please.
operator: okay. so why did he do it?
caller: i don't know.
caller: oh, the baby's still alive, please.
operator: okay. we're getting them coming, but don't hang up, okay?
caller: please, please.
caller: i'm the grandma. oh my god, please.
operator: where's the father at?
caller: he's standing next to me.
caller: please, ambulance right now. i don't know how much longer.
caller: grandma loves you. with all my heart, i love you.
caller: officers are here. i have to go.
operator: is the officer there?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm on ware street in cambridge, and the house number is 17.
operator: which street?
caller: sorry, it's 17 ware street.
operator: got it. what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i'm calling from my cell phone.
operator: can you tell me exactly what happened?
caller: i don't know exactly. there's an older woman here who saw two gentlemen trying to get into a house at 17 ware street. they broke the screen door and finally got in.
operator: do you think they might have been breaking in?
caller: i don't know. they might have been, but they pushed the door in. the screen part of the front door was cut.
operator: did you see if they used a key or anything to open the door?
caller: i didn't see a key. i was a little away from the door, but they did push their way in.
operator: do you know if they're still in the house?
caller: yes, they're still in the house, i believe.
operator: can you describe the individuals?
caller: there were two larger men. one looked kind of hispanic, but i'm not really sure about the other one. i only saw him from a distance.
operator: are you standing outside?
caller: yes, i'm standing outside.
operator: all right, police are on the way. can you meet them when they get there? what's your name?
caller: yeah, my name is <name>. i'll wait for them.
operator: thank you. stay safe. police will be there shortly.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance quickly.
operator: what's the address of the emergency?
caller: we were just sitting talking, my wife yelled bob, and then she fell on the floor.
operator: okay, what's... oh, quick, i don't think she's breathing.
caller: i fed your information. what's the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i don't know. she said, 'bob,' and then she fell on the floor. i don't know what happened.
operator: are you with her right now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: how old is she?
caller: 64. oh, hurry.
operator: is she conscious?
caller: no.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: can you check?
caller: yes, she is breathing.
operator: okay, but she's limp.
caller: okay, i understand. we're sending someone to help you now. i just need to get a little more information, okay?
operator: is she breathing normally?
caller: i don't know. i can't tell that. i mean, she's warm and i can feel breath coming out of her mouth.
operator: does she have a history of heart problems?
caller: no.
operator: is she still unconscious?
caller: pardon?
operator: is she still unconscious?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i'm sending paramedics to help you now. stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do next, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: are you right by her now?
caller: yeah, no, well, not right now.
operator: okay, i need you to get right by her.
caller: okay.
operator: all right. now listen carefully. i need you to lay her flat on her back and remove any pillows, okay?
caller: okay. let me get this table out of the way.
caller: oh, god, almighty. hurry.
operator: okay, they're on their way. you're doing fine. she hit her nose and she's bleeding. she hit her nose on the corner of the table.
operator: kneel next to her and look in her mouth for food or vomit.
scenario:traffic
caller: no, there's no food.
operator: okay, nothing in her mouth. i want you to place your hand on her forehead, your other hand under her neck, and tilt her head back.
caller: well, she's laying flat now.
operator: okay, i still need you to do this for me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: one hand on her forehead, the other hand under her neck and tilt her head back.
caller: yeah.
operator: put your ear next to her mouth and tell me if you can feel or hear any breathing.
caller: okay, hang on.
caller: okay.
caller: no, i can't.
caller: oh, wait a minute, there she's breathing.
operator: all right. can you put the phone down there so i can hear?
caller: yeah.
caller: oh, you can't hear crisp. she just sort of took a breath there.
operator: okay. listen carefully. i'm going to tell you how to do chest compressions, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: make sure she's flat on her back on the ground.
caller: yeah.
operator: place the heel of your hand on the breastbone in the center of her chest right between the nipples, okay?
caller: yep.
operator: put your other hand on top of that hand.
caller: yeah.
operator: you're going to push down firmly two inches with only the heel of your lower hand touching the chest. now listen carefully. i need you to pump the chest hard and fast at least twice per second.
caller: there she's breathing.
operator: just keep doing it. she's not breathing normally, right?
caller: no.
operator: okay, keep doing this. i need you to pump the chest hard and fast at least twice per second. you need to do this 400 times. that's only three and a half minutes. it's not as long as it sounds. okay?
caller: the fire department is en route to you now and the ambulance.
caller: i can unlock the front door.
operator: okay. i need you to keep doing this. you need to let the chest come all the way up between pumps. tell me as soon as you're done. i'm going to stay on the line with you, okay?
caller: yeah. and you need to do this fast. one, two, three, four, five.
operator: okay? can you count out loud for me?
caller: yeah. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven.
operator: you're doing good.
caller: there she is. she just took a breath in.
operator: okay, she's still not breathing normally.
caller: no, no.
operator: okay, keep going.
caller: i'm going.
caller: oh, what the hell? they're on their way. the fire department is also on the way to you.
caller: okay, she just took another breath in.
operator: okay, she's still not breathing normally. she's not breathing as often as she should.
caller: yeah, there's another breath in.
operator: okay, keep doing chest compressions.
caller: okay.
caller: oh, there she took a big, deep breath. come on, baby, wake up. wake up.
operator: you're doing good. hang in there for her, okay? you need to hang in there for her.
caller: yeah. she should take her deep breath that time.
operator: okay, keep going.
caller: oh, come on. oh, there's a big one. yes, come on. come on, there's a big one. sounds like there's something, you know, like there's flam in her throat. we were just sitting having her key.
caller: oh, there's a nice big one. come on, baby. come on, come on. keep them coming.
operator: where's that ambulance? they should be there very shortly.
caller: i believe they're actually, is that what it is? i can't hear the sirens.
caller: i think they're outside. if you hear them knocking, go and lock the door. but don't stop until you hear them.
operator: yeah. you're doing good. that's a good breath, babe. come on. come on. keep it coming. come on, sweetheart.
caller: i can't hear him knocking with the phone in. i got one bad ear.
caller: oh, that's a good breath, baby. come on.
operator: okay, how far away is the door?
caller: oh, 30 feet. there they are.
operator: okay. i'll let you go and go answer the door, okay?
caller: all right, thank you, sir.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i need the police at 963 east 36th street.
operator: okay, give me the address again.
caller: nine six three east 36th street.
operator: are you right off riverside?
caller: yes, 963 east 36th street.
operator: and you said it's a house?
caller: yes.
operator: and you said there's somebody in the house?
caller: there's somebody inside the house.
operator: are you in the house?
caller: no, i'm not. i just got back from the store.
operator: are you the owner? what is your name?
caller: no, i'm the grandson of the owner. she's in the house.
operator: the owner is in the house?
caller: my grandmother, yes. i live with her. i went to the store and there's somebody in the house.
operator: did you see them, hear them? did she call you? what's going on?
caller: no, i looked in the front door because all the doors were open, which isn't normal. and i could see her...
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just shot my wife.
operator: okay, and what's your address?
operator: okay, and is she still alive?
caller: probably not.
caller: i shot her twice.
operator: okay, and what is your name?
caller: sir? hello?
operator: no, wait a minute, i'm trying to remember.
caller: i think it's christopher.
operator: okay, christopher. do you know your last name?
caller: what's that?
caller: thorson. thor. with the t.
operator: okay. and can you spell the whole thing for me?
caller: t-h-o-r-s-o-n.
operator: and why did you shoot your wife?
caller: i couldn't put up with it any longer. she's been really sick and she asked me to do it.
operator: where's the weapon now?
caller: i broke it down and put it back in the gun locker.
operator: okay. and what was she sick with?
caller: she has dementia really bad and she got to be a wicked person.
operator: okay. and where did you shoot her? what part of her body?
caller: well, she was on the couch and i shot her probably in the stomach area.
operator: and you said twice?
caller: yeah, i shot her twice.
operator: okay. and what did you shoot her with? what caliber gun?
caller: a 12-gauge shotgun.
operator: okay, and you said, what was your first name?
caller: christopher.
operator: christopher, okay. and are you inside the house still?
caller: well, yeah, i'm sitting on the back porch because i just wanted to do this.
operator: okay. i'm going to put you on hold for just one moment. don't hang up.
operator: okay. i'm going to stay on the phone with you, christopher, until they get there, just so you have somebody to talk to, okay?
caller: would you do me a favor?
operator: what's up?
caller: don't tell them to come up here with lights and sirens because i don't want people to know what i've done.
operator: he's asking for a silent approach from everybody because he doesn't want everybody to know what he's done.
operator: okay, and christopher, do you spell your first name with a k or a ch?
caller: c-h like in charlie.
operator: okay.
caller: i don't want to do this anymore. just tell me when they come. i'm not crazy.
operator: okay. take a deep breath. i'll let them know what you've requested, okay?
caller: okay. they have to come up the driveway. i'll be sitting on the back porch.
caller: i just couldn't do this anymore. we've been married for 37 years. i'm not going to hurt anyone when they come up here.
operator: yes, he put it away, broke it back down, and put it in the gun case.
caller: i wanted to do this.
caller: yeah, and he's on the back porch waiting for them.
caller: i'm highly upset. i'm sorry.
operator: that's okay. it's all right. understandable why you're upset.
caller: i didn't want to do this because i can't see this no more. can't see this no more.
caller: there's just a, just a boy in her head. i don't hear me. i don't know how i didn't want to do that.
caller: she was all cursing in her head and i had to do it.
caller: god, don't hurt me when you come out.
operator: okay. because you did shoot your wife, there are several officers coming in first. they're going to make contact with you, and they may have their guns drawn. make sure that you don't make any sudden moves and that you're very cooperative with them. be as open with them as you have been with me.
operator: okay, and then the medics are going to come in and confirm, okay?
operator: just stay on the phone with me until they get there, all right?
caller: my heart is beating fast now. i should have shot myself, too.
operator: oh, no. okay, well, all i can say is try to take a deep breath and relax. i know this is a very stressful time for you right now.
caller: it's not at all what i expected.
caller: don't hurt me, monica. don't hurt her. i've already hurt her now.
caller: oh, so good.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, hi. i need to get someone to come to 590 gates avenue.
operator: 590 gates avenue in brooklyn?
caller: yeah.
caller: truth and garvey, between boliv and marcus.
operator: okay. what happened there?
caller: this kid in this house, he gets his behavior?
operator: who is that?
caller: that's supposed to be my son.
operator: that's her son?
caller: yeah, no respect and no chance to deal with this tonight.
caller: she said i was done.
operator: uh-huh. you heard him?
caller: i didn't say.
caller: you heard it out of his mouth.
operator: he didn't injure you, right?
caller: nobody to keep on tonight with this.
caller: it's 1d. could you get me?
operator: okay, give me your name and number there.
caller: all right, i'm going to let them know 590 gates avenue, apartment 1d on the first floor.
operator: yeah, so you read them. they'll get in.
operator: they'll be there as soon as possible.
caller: thank you.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi. my name is jean thomas. i'm watching my home on live monitor and there's a black man in my house and he's robbing it.
operator: where are you calling from?
caller: i'm calling from my office and i have a live video monitor and i just...
operator: what city are you calling from, ma'am?
caller: i'm in fort lauderdale at my work.
operator: so you don't know him?
caller: no, i don't. and he's in my house. i'm seeing him walking around my house. he's in my bedroom right now.
operator: okay, hold on a second.
caller: please. we've already been robbed of everything.
operator: pardon me?
caller: hold on just a second.
operator: what is he wearing, ma'am?
caller: it's just blacked out on me. i can't tell. it's too dark. i can tell it's a black man. that's all i can tell.
operator: the screen just blacked out?
caller: yeah, hold on just a second.
operator: yeah, she's watching it from work on one of those live video cameras and he's in her home, in her bedroom, and they've been robbed before.
operator: how long has he been in there, ma'am?
caller: i don't know. i just called 999 as soon as i saw it.
operator: did the screen come back on?
caller: no, it hasn't yet. it's still trying to connect.
operator: okay, hold on a second. please get somebody there quick.
operator: ma'am, they're on the way. we just need as much information as possible.
caller: oh, there he is! he's in a long-sleeve shirt. can you tell what color, or is it black and white? i can't tell. it's too dark still. he just walked back into my bedroom again. he's just walking around my house.
operator: okay, so it's definitely a black male, long-sleeved shirt?
caller: yes, a shirt over a shirt. and he's in my home.
operator: can you tell if he has any weapons?
caller: i can't tell.
operator: okay. is he still in the bedroom at this time?
caller: yes. i'm watching it right now. i can't believe this.
operator: alright, ma'am. what's your name?
caller: my name is jean. my last name is thomas.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: my cell phone is [number].
operator: is anyone else at your house?
caller: no, nobody's there. my little boy is at school, i'm at work.
operator: does anyone else have a key?
caller: no. there goes my cat. she's running. i've got three dogs in there.
operator: okay, ma'am, from your front door, where is your bedroom located?
caller: straight through to the right. it's on the northwest side.
operator: okay, hold on. does he have a mask or anything on?
caller: no, i don't see a mask or anything.
operator: does he have any type of tools that he might have used to break in?
caller: he could have come through my doggy door.
caller: okay, he's coming out. he has a white shirt.
operator: hold on a second. do you think he's exiting the house now?
caller: no, he's walking next to my stereo. he's looking at my son's video games. he's rummaging through the house. i'm going to lose the connection in about 34 seconds.
operator: are the officers there yet?
caller: no, but please hurry. he's now in my living room.
operator: ma'am, i just need as much information as possible. what is he doing now?
caller: he's picked up a wii video game. he has something in his hands. he's now in the living room.
operator: okay, so he's in the living room. can you see what he's picked up?
caller: it just blacked out on me. i'm trying to get back in.
operator: does it usually do that?
caller: yes, it only connects for about three minutes at a time.
caller: it's connecting back again. please hurry!
operator: ma'am, we do have an officer on the scene.
operator: as soon as the screen comes back, i need to know where he is.
caller: okay, it's coming back. hurry! oh god, please hurry.
caller: they've stolen everything. all my jewelry, all my coins.
operator: do you have an alarm system, ma'am?
caller: yes, but it's not connected.
operator: has the screen come back on yet?
caller: it's still connecting, but it's taking too long.
caller: it's probably the same person who broke in before.
caller: okay, the screen is back. i don't see anyone right now.
operator: alright, please keep watching and let me know if you see anything.
caller: oh, he's coming out of the bedroom again. he's in the living room.
operator: alright, where is he now?
caller: he's looking around. he's got something in his hands. he's back in the living room.
operator: hold on just a second.
caller: oh, god. i can't believe this.
caller: he's running out the back door!
caller: there are two people in the house now!
operator: hold on, there's another person in the house?
caller: yes, another person in a big jacket just came in through the back.
operator: okay, can you see both of them?
caller: they're running around, looking out the back window.
operator: are they still in the house?
caller: yes, i can see them both. one is heavy with a big hood on. they're looking out the back window.
operator: okay, just keep watching them. officers are on the way.
caller: oh, one is running to the front; the other is trying to figure out which way to go!
operator: ma'am, stay calm. officers are surrounding your house.
caller: alright. my cat is scared, and my dogs are hiding.
operator: it's going to be okay. just keep watching and tell me what you see.
caller: they're running around trying to get out!
operator: ma'am, are there any weapons in your house?
caller: no, i don't keep any weapons.
operator: do you see anyone else on the camera?
caller: i'm trying to reconnect the camera.
operator: ma'am, the officers have apprehended two people.
scenario:medical
operator: i need to know if you see anyone else once the screen comes back.
caller: thank god. i hope they got them. there are so many people next door, i can't tell who's who.
caller: okay, i see someone in my house!
operator: can you tell if it's a police officer?
caller: i don't know. i just see someone in my house.
operator: okay, hold on. officers should be inside now.
caller: i see my dog running; she's scared.
caller: i see another officer now.
operator: how many subjects did you see in total?
caller: just the two. one with a white shirt, and one with a big jacket.
operator: okay, so you've seen two subjects, mostly the one in the white shirt?
caller: yes, the other one came later.
operator: alright, ma'am. can you head to your house now?
caller: yes. it'll take me about 30 minutes; i'm in fort lauderdale.
operator: what type of vehicle will you be in?
caller: a blue honda crv.
operator: ma'am, just a note, an officer had to push part of the fence in to get inside.
caller: i don't care about the fence. thank you for your help.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: shooting in the courthouse, officer down, shooting.
operator: i can't understand you. what's going on?
caller: shooting in the courthouse, officer is down.
operator: a police officer is down?
caller: yes, it's a jail control. jailer is down.
operator: okay, please don't hang up. i'm going to get some help.
caller: okay, listen. ma'am, i need to talk to the ambulance, okay? please don't hang up.
caller: the suspect has a light blue shirt on.
operator: okay, please don't hang up.
caller: light blue shirt at the front door. he used a gun in here.
caller: linda, i'm on it. do you have any staff?
operator: don't go over there. stay on the phone.
operator: ma'am, what's your name? who was shot?
caller: i believe it was a corrections officer from the county jails.
operator: okay. careful. was he killed?
caller: oh my god. he took her gun.
operator: linda, who had the gun?
caller: i don't know. it was a person in the blue shirt.
caller: i believe the corrections officer was transporting a male subject in a blue shirt who then took the officer's gun.
operator: okay, so a male subject in a light blue shirt took the officer's gun?
operator: and shot the corrections officer?
caller: yes, shot the corrections officer. i believe, i'm pretty sure.
operator: okay. linda, are you a witness or do you work there?
caller: i work in the court office.
caller: bill laris was wrestling with him. he shoved his arm and tried to get him to grab the gun.
caller: i took off running.
operator: i'm just keeping you on the phone until i can get somebody there, okay?
caller: i'm in the sheriff's department room.
operator: okay, can you tell me which area you're in? district court, you said?
caller: i'm in the district court. i'm standing in the office of the sheriff's department right now.
operator: okay. thank you for your information.
caller: we need police at the courthouse on the second floor.
operator: okay, what's going on up there?
caller: i think there were gunshots.
operator: someone was shot?
caller: yes, we need an ambulance and police officers.
operator: which part of the courthouse?
caller: second floor, i believe.
operator: and he's got the gun?
caller: yes, he has the gun. we need police officers now.
operator: okay, we're getting them on the way. please stay on the line.
operator: is anyone still there with a gun?
caller: yes, he's still here with the gun.
operator: who has the gun?
caller: i don't know. a male in a blue shirt.
operator: do you know if anybody's hurt?
caller: a woman was shot, i believe.
operator: we're getting help. don't hang up.
operator: do you need anything?
caller: just information on who has the gun.
caller: i'm not sure. he had a blue shirt on.
operator: do you know where he went?
caller: i think he ran out the front door of the courthouse.
operator: the officer was shot in the arm and the judge was stabbed?
caller: yes, but it's not life-threatening.
operator: describe the suspect: male, black pants, blue shirt. stay there.
operator: also requesting k-9 units. all available units respond.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm calling about my son.
operator: what's your address, ma'am?
caller: i'm on the side of the road. they took him in a car.
operator: ma'am, what address are you calling from?
caller: i'm on the side of the road, i don't have an address.
operator: okay, you're on whitaker road. ma'am? whitaker road and what?
caller: i'm near lincoln high school. whitaker and willis road.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: my car is disabled on the side of the road. it's gray.
operator: ma'am, they took your car too?
caller: no, they took my son. he's two years old.
operator: he's two years old, and you're at whitaker and willis road, ma'am?
caller: yes, i'm on whitaker road, between willis and milet.
operator: okay, do you see a house near you?
caller: no, i'm in the dark, in the country. my car is disabled.
operator: what color is your car?
caller: gray, it's a gray taurus.
operator: ma'am, take a deep breath. who took your baby?
caller: i don't know. somebody stopped and said they'd help with my car.
operator: which way did he go?
caller: towards paletti. it was a red pickup truck.
operator: did you get a license plate number?
caller: no.
operator: did he go north on whitaker from willis road?
caller: yes, northbound on whitaker.
operator: ma'am, we have deputies on the way there right now. tell me what else you can about the red truck.
caller: it's old and has rust on it.
operator: is it a big truck or a small truck?
caller: a small truck.
operator: maya, stay on the phone with me. the police are on the way. tell me more about the truck that took your son.
caller: it was a small, old, red truck with rust. that's all i saw. it's dark.
operator: stay in your car with the doors locked until the police get there, okay?
caller: please help me, there's a car behind me.
operator: okay, ma'am. we have help on the way. tell me what else you can about the truck.
caller: it was red, old, and had rust.
operator: what did the person look like who took your son?
caller: i don't know. it was dark.
operator: okay, ma'am. we have police on the way there. can you tell me anything else about the person who took your son?
caller: no, i'm in my car with my other kids. please hurry.
operator: okay, they're on the way, ma'am. stay in your car with the doors locked until the police get there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: two men have just crossed my fence. they're trying to get into my house.
operator: what is the address?
caller: 4202 marlow circle.
operator: can you repeat that address for me?
caller: 4202 marlow circle.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: house.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: 459-7344.
operator: your last name, please.
caller: orange. they're trying to break the window.
operator: and your first name?
caller: they're coming into my house. maggie.
operator: okay maggie, i understand. and it's two males, you said?
caller: yes. one in a red jumpsuit, the other in a blue and white hoodie.
operator: and the one in the red jumpsuit, is he white, black, or hispanic?
caller: they just broke the glass.
operator: okay. the one in the red jumpsuit, is he white, black, or hispanic?
caller: black or hispanic.
operator: and the second one, is he white, black, or hispanic?
caller: black.
operator: okay, and what color clothing did you say he had on?
caller: blue and white hoodie.
operator: alright, we have officers en route to your location. are they inside the house now?
caller: yes. they're in the house.
operator: are there any weapons involved or mentioned?
caller: i can't see any.
operator: and do you have any further descriptions on them?
caller: no, not really. they just walked up.
operator: are you in immediate danger?
caller: yes.
operator: can you get to a safe place?
caller: i'm in a closet.
operator: alright, stay there. if you don't want to talk, just tap once for 'yes' and twice for 'no.'
operator: are you in a closet in your bedroom?
caller: yes.
operator: is there anyone else in the house with you?
caller: no, just me.
operator: are there any possible exits from the house?
caller: the back door.
operator: no weapons in the house, correct?
caller: correct.
operator: i'm going to stay on the phone with you until officers are there. is the back door locked?
caller: yes.
operator: are you still in the closet?
caller: yes.
operator: can you hear them in the room?
caller: yes, they're rummaging through things.
caller: they ran out. i see the cops!
operator: is the police officer with you?
caller: no, they are running towards the backyard!
operator: the officers are in the area, stay on the phone with me.
caller: they're running towards another house!
operator: the officers have them on sight.
caller: the guy in the red jumpsuit is still running.
operator: can you see where he's heading?
caller: towards the apartment complex.
operator: alright, officers are following him now. are you okay?
caller: i think so. it was so scary.
operator: you did really well. we're going to make sure everything is clear now. do you see any damage?
caller: yes, they broke a window.
operator: if you feel safe, i can let you go now, officers are out there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you did a great job. you're welcome. bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we got a fire down here on route 7, right here at abington.
operator: route 7 on abington road.
caller: yeah, right down below mccombie's funeral home.
operator: and what's on fire?
caller: there's kids in the house in here, howard.
operator: the house is on fire?
caller: the house on fire and people's in there, dear.
operator: okay.
operator: do you see flames and smoke?
caller: yeah, flame smoke. yes, people's hollering, honey. come on, please.
operator: all right. do you have a direct address?
caller: me?
operator: yes, do you have a direct address?
caller: i don't know the address. it's right down below mccormitz's home.
caller: huh? they ain't yelling now. the kid ain't yelling anymore.
operator: and you said flames are visible?
caller: yeah, planes are. yeah, it's hard, hurry, hon.
caller: uh, shit, yes, much is going out of the house. it's below mccannis.
operator: is it one second?
caller: yeah, right seven. yes, please, dear.
caller: rep. the government's.
operator: okay. somebody's dispatching the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: try to enter yourself, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: do not go in there yourself and do not let any other bystanders go in.
caller: okay.
operator: and if anything changes, i want you to call me back immediately on 999.
caller: we can't do nothing. they said don't do nothing.
operator: all right. call me back immediately on 999.
caller: we can't get in there, eddie. mark.
caller: yeah. that's a worker. oh, man. oh, this is a shame.
operator: sir, is there any way that you can get me an address, okay, so we can get the fire department right there?
caller: yeah. do you see a mailbox?
caller: yeah, i'm calling out. what's the address here, dear? oh, my god. oh, my god. it's right. it's right below mccona's, huh?
operator: you there?
caller: yeah. 3401.
operator: 3401?
caller: yes. yes.
operator: okay. all right, well, we're starting the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: all right. if anything changes, call me back immediately.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i'm turning myself in for my husband.
operator: ma'am, i can't hear you with the dog in the background.
caller: i'm sorry, i'm turning myself in for killing my husband.
operator: where's your husband?
caller: he's on the couch right now.
operator: okay, is he alive?
caller: no.
operator: what is your street name?
caller: avenue in spring hill.
operator: okay. how did you kill him?
caller: i shot him.
operator: and you're sure that he's not breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: where's the gun?
caller: on the counter.
operator: where did you shoot him?
caller: in his head.
operator: okay, why did you do this?
caller: because i had been suffering years of mental and verbal abuse, and i just felt like i've reached the end.
operator: and what is your name?
operator: what's your last name?
operator: is there anybody else with you?
caller: yes, my parents.
operator: do they know what happened?
caller: yes.
operator: and you don't have any weapons on you, do you?
caller: no.
scenario:medical
operator: and you said you put the gun down where?
caller: on the counter.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: he's breaking into my house!
operator: listen to me. who is it?
caller: i don't know who he is!
operator: okay, and you believe someone's breaking into your house?
caller: yes! he's breaking in now, hurry!
operator: okay, can you give me your address?
caller: 4980 west 118th court.
operator: got it. and you don't know this person?
caller: no, hurry! he's getting in!
operator: hold on the phone with me, okay?
caller: hurry, please!
operator: okay, i'm here with you. i need to get more information. where are you in the house?
caller: i'm on the second floor.
operator: you're on the second floor, okay. is this a house?
caller: yes, hurry, please!
operator: we're dispatching officers right now. just stay on the phone with me.
caller: okay, he's in my garage, please, hurry.
operator: can you lock the door?
caller: yes, but he's coming through right now. he's coming in!
operator: hide somewhere and stay very quiet.
caller: he's looking for me. are they here?
operator: we have officers in the area, they should be there any moment.
caller: he's in the house!
operator: stay on the phone with me and stay as quiet as possible.
caller: he's coming in!
operator: does he know you're in there?
caller: i don't think so.
operator: just stay quiet, the officers are almost there.
caller: what do you want?! i'll give you whatever you want!
operator: stay calm and quiet, ma'am. help is almost there.
caller: he's asking for money.
operator: it's okay. stay quiet. the officers are arriving.
caller: he's in my house. my daughter's outside.
operator: we'll find your daughter. stay hidden and quiet.
caller: i can't find my daughter. she's only 11.
operator: we'll search for her. the officers are there. stay on the phone.
caller: he's fighting them!
operator: the officers are trained to handle this. they are taking care of it.
caller: is he out of my house?
operator: the officers will let you know. you're doing great.
caller: i can't find my daughter.
operator: the officers will help you find her. stay with me.
caller: are they talking to you now?
caller: yes, they're here.
operator: great. you're safe now. you can hang up the phone.
caller: i need to call my husband.
operator: go ahead. you're safe now. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: officer, there's an emergency at the bank of america on laurel canyon, north of kittridge.
operator: can you provide more details about the situation?
caller: yes, we have shots fired at the bank of america. there are two suspects, heavily armed and wearing body armor.
operator: are you or anyone else with you injured?
caller: i believe there are officers down. the suspects are armed with ak-47s and are shooting at everything.
operator: stay calm. units are responding code 3. can you see the suspects' location now?
caller: one suspect is outside the bank, moving toward the parking lot. the other might still be inside.
operator: keep at a safe distance. officers are en route. do not approach the suspects.
caller: i can see the suspect's vehicle. it's a white car with an open trunk, parked near the north side of the bank.
operator: noted. we need to keep the area clear. where exactly are you now?
caller: i'm behind a tree, north of archwood on laurel canyon. i can see more civilians getting caught in the crossfire.
operator: keep yourself covered and away from the line of fire. multiple units are en route. we'll get help to you soon.
caller: understood. they're still firing at the officers. one suspect is now moving eastbound, out of the parking lot.
operator: alright. the air unit has eyes on them. we need all units to maintain a safe distance and allow swat to handle the suspects.
caller: can we get more help? there are injured officers and civilians.
operator: ambulances are on standby, and additional units are being notified. we need to keep the area secure.
caller: the officers are pinned down, and one suspect is still shooting at them from behind the white vehicle.
operator: noted. swat is being notified. all units maintain your positions until swat arrives.
caller: the suspect with the white vehicle is moving again, heading east on archwood.
operator: units, keep a safe distance and follow the suspect. the air unit will provide updates on the suspect's movements.
caller: alright, they're still firing. this is chaotic. civilians are in danger.
operator: all units, shots are still being fired. civilians are in danger. maintain distance. help is on the way.
caller: one suspect is trying to escape. we need to secure the area.
operator: all units, suspect attempting to flee. secure the perimeter and avoid engagement until swat arrives.
caller: understood. we'll hold positions.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my friend has been missing since 7 o'clock this morning. she's in the middle of a divorce, and i'm not sure what to do.
operator: can you give me some more details about why you believe she's missing?
caller: she supposedly went for a run this morning at 7 o'clock in lockmere, but no one has heard from her. she was supposed to be at my house at 8, and she never showed up.
operator: have you checked with any local hospitals or anyone she might have contacted?
caller: i called wake med, and they haven't admitted her on any emergent basis.
operator: okay. just a moment. may i place you on hold for just a moment?
caller: yep.
operator: thank you. that's correct. all right. what is your friend's name?
caller: her name is nancy cooper.
operator: what is her address?
caller: she and her husband live together, but they are in the middle of a divorce.
operator: have you tried making contact with her?
caller: yes, i called her husband this morning around 9. he said she went for a run with her friend carrie, but she hasn't returned. i'm worried because it's not like her to disappear like this.
operator: has her husband been violent with her in the past?
caller: i'm not sure if he's been physically violent, but i know there's been a lot of tension.
operator: is it possible she might have done something else and just forgotten to inform anyone?
caller: her car is parked at home and her cell phone is there, so it seems like she did leave for a run. it's not like her to just vanish without letting anyone know.
operator: did her husband mention anything about her running with someone else?
caller: yes, he said she was running with a friend named carrie, but none of her other friends or i knew anything about it. it's very odd.
operator: what can the police department do to help in this situation?
caller: i'm not sure what to do. should her husband be the one to file a report? is there a certain number of hours we need to wait?
operator: there is no time limit to file a missing person report. the person who last saw her should file it, which in this case would be her husband.
caller: okay. i'm just worried about how her husband will react.
operator: it's better to be safe than sorry. we will send an officer to her house to speak with her husband and check the area.
caller: thank you. her husband contacted me directly to explain the situation.
operator: we will also check the trails around lockmere lake. can you describe the trails she might have taken?
caller: yes, they're public trails, but some parts are more secluded. i've run with her there before.
operator: alright, give us about 30 to 45 minutes to work on this. you can call me back after that.
caller: okay. my name is michelle.
operator: thank you, michelle. we'll do everything we can.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need a policeman in the name of this in my house. right now.
operator: i need you to calm down and give me the address, ma'am.
caller: 1807 elmwood court, sugarland, hurry, please.
operator: what's going on, ma'am?
caller: she's trying to get away. she's trying to get away. please send somebody.
operator: okay, i need you to tell me why. what's going on?
caller: my husband pressed charges against her, and now she busted the door off and stabbed him. please hurry up.
operator: she came into your house and stabbed him? who is she?
caller: please just send somebody.
operator: okay, he's holding her down at this point, but he's bleeding very badly.
caller: yes, and he's trying to hold her down, but she said she's not going to jail, so she's stabbing him.
operator: ma'am, i have them on the way. what is the female's name you're talking about?
caller: her name is lydia. okay, right now he's trying to hold her down and she's... oh, god!
operator: what is she stabbing him with?
caller: i don't know. it's not... it looks like a knife. it's sticking out of his head.
operator: a knife?
caller: yes, i just don't stick it out of his head. it's still in there.
operator: okay, what's your name, ma'am?
caller: my name is cindy, and i'm sorry, but i am really freaked out right now.
operator: okay, i understand, ma'am, and i'm sorry, but they're on the way, okay? who is she to you all?
caller: she used to work for him. she stole a lot of equipment, so he pressed charges on her, and now all of a sudden she's in our house in the middle of the night.
operator: does she have a car, anything out there you know?
caller: i don't know.
operator: do you have any kids or anything over there?
caller: yes, i have four.
operator: you have four kids inside?
caller: yes.
operator: are your kids in another room?
caller: yes, they're upstairs asleep. please hurry, let's hurry up.
operator: try to calm down, ma'am. they're on the way. they're coming as fast as they can.
caller: i'm going to wind up killing her if she doesn't just be still. okay, i'm gonna hit her with this baseball bat if she doesn't be still.
operator: ma'am, just keep her there one way or another. she's not getting away this time.
caller: this is the problem. they couldn't find her. the police are supposed to be arresting her for the last month.
operator: you said your husband filed a restraining order on her before?
caller: he does, possibly. he had a warrant out for her arrest, but as usual, the police aren't doing their job.
operator: ma'am, you need to get that ambulance here quick. okay, he's bleeding everywhere.
caller: he's bleeding everywhere.
operator: where did she stab him?
caller: in the head. i've already told you that.
operator: okay, i have that, but you said she was continuing to stab him.
caller: that's all i can see right now.
operator: where are you all at in the house?
caller: we're in the bedroom.
operator: in the bedroom? is the door open or anything?
caller: i was standing in the doorway. i don't remember if i left it open or not.
operator: ma'am, can i please get off the phone now?
caller: i have a bat, ma'am. if i have to, i will use it.
operator: okay, stay on the line. they should be coming soon, okay?
caller: okay, he's doing all he can to hold her down. if she moves, i'm going to hit her.
operator: okay, they should be coming any minute now.
caller: hurry, please, hurry!
operator: okay, ma'am, where is your bedroom located in the house? they come in the door, where do they go?
caller: to the left, in the back.
caller: hurry, please, hurry! she's running.
operator: they should be coming up, ma'am. hold on for me.
caller: are you okay? they're here!
operator: you have an officer there?
caller: yes, they're here. we need an ambulance.
operator: okay, they're coming. stay safe.
caller: okay, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i've got a woman in my bank pointing a rifle at all of us and all of our customers. i need police now.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. it's a woman, you said?
caller: oh my god, she's making us go into the vault. i need police here now!
operator: police are on the way. stay on the line with me. a woman is holding up the bank?
caller: yes, she just walked in with a shotgun.
operator: okay, which bank and where exactly is it located?
caller: bank of america on the corner of orangewood avenue and central florida parkway.
operator: where are you right now?
caller: i just walked out to my car.
operator: can you describe the woman for me?
caller: yes, she's white, has brown hair, wearing a pink tank top and blue jean shorts.
operator: okay, and you said you saw a shotgun?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'm moving down the road a little bit, but i can still see the bank.
operator: please try to stay where you can see the bank safely. your name?
caller: okay, hang on. my name is [name redacted].
operator: okay. can you see anything else?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: do you know what she was wearing?
caller: a pink shirt, blue jean shorts.
operator: okay. where are you right now?
caller: i moved down to a public area so i wouldn't be in full view of her. i thought it was a joke at first, but then she said it was a stick-up.
operator: you were walking out as she was walking in?
caller: correct. she said everyone had to give her money, but i was already out the door.
operator: okay, stay on the line. let me see if i can transfer you to my dispatcher.
caller: no problem.
operator: okay, stay on the line. what's your emergency?
caller: hey, i don't know if this is real, but i'm standing outside the bank of america on the corner of orangewood and central florida parkway. there's a lady with a rifle and she's bringing people into the vault. i just walked in and she told me to turn around and get out, so i did.
operator: yes, we have deputies on the way. can you describe the woman?
caller: she was hispanic and around 45 years old.
operator: what was she wearing?
caller: an orange shirt, like a halter top, and black jeans, i think.
operator: do you know what type of rifle it was?
caller: no, but it was definitely a rifle.
operator: she was putting everyone inside the vault?
caller: yes, i saw her directing people into the vault.
operator: can you still see her? are you in the parking lot?
caller: i'm in the parking lot but i can't see inside the bank from here.
operator: has she exited the bank yet, as far as you can tell?
caller: no, she hasn't. she's still inside.
operator: okay, stay where you are and keep safe. we'll have officers there shortly.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, please, hurry. this is 19 windham court. we've got somebody in the house here with a gun, and he's threatening all three of us.
operator: okay, who is it?
caller: oh, my god, he's shooting again!
operator: all right, who is he shooting at?
caller: i don't know! he's shooting at my girlfriend's daughter.
operator: hold on one second. does she have a restraining order against him?
caller: yes, she has a restraining order against him, and he won't leave us alone. oh, please, hurry!
operator: all right, 19 windham court in arlington heights, right?
caller: yes, please, hurry!
operator: is anyone hurt?
caller: i don't know. oh, my god. what is he doing?
operator: ma'am, what does he look like?
caller: he's about 25 years old, i'd say. i'm not sure.
operator: okay, does your daughter have a restraining order against him?
caller: yes, she does.
operator: okay, what type of weapon does he have?
caller: i think it's a handgun. oh, there's a cop here!
operator: okay, are the police there now?
caller: i don't know, but please hurry! he's got a gun!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency? someone just shot a cop!
caller: okay, where are you?
operator: i'm in the house.
caller: do you still have a weapon on you?
caller: yes, and if anyone comes down here, i'm shooting.
operator: where in the house are you?
caller: i'm in the basement.
operator: do you have anyone else with you in the basement?
caller: yes, my girlfriend is here.
operator: is she okay?
caller: yes, but if anyone comes down here, i'm shooting.
operator: okay, let's calm down. what's your name?
caller: eric anderson.
operator: okay, eric, don't shoot anyone else, alright? just stay on the phone with me.
caller: i already shot a cop. i need help.
operator: we're sending help. stay on the phone and stay calm. don't hurt anyone else.
operator: police and fire department, how can i help you?
caller: hi, my daughter and her mother are being held hostage by my daughter's ex-boyfriend. he shot a police officer.
operator: okay, and what is your name?
caller: my name is [redacted], and i'm in las vegas.
operator: did you text your daughter back?
caller: no, i didn't.
operator: okay, i recommend you text her back to acknowledge her and tell her you're doing everything you can to help.
caller: alright, i'll do that.
scenario:medical
operator: what else did she tell you in the messages?
caller: she said she was moved and is being held in a basement. they can see her in a window well.
operator: alright, we'll pass that information to the officers.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a friend being held hostage right now at gunpoint.
operator: where is this happening?
caller: it's at arlington heights road and palatine road.
operator: what information do you have?
caller: she's been communicating with me via text. she's in the basement, and her phone is about to die.
operator: okay, what else did she tell you?
caller: she said he's pacing back and forth, and he shot at her mom.
operator: is this new information?
caller: no, this was within the past hour.
operator: alright, and is her mom with them?
caller: i don't know.
operator: when did she tell you her phone might die?
caller: about 20 minutes ago.
operator: okay, thanks for the update. we'll let the officers know. if you hear anything else, call us back.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: hello, this is brian.
caller: hi, brian. my daughter called and she's in a squad car now.
operator: that's great news. i'm glad she's safe.
caller: i just wanted to tell you how wonderful you all have been. thank you so much.
operator: thank you, sir. i'm glad everything worked out.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, 999? please help me. somebody's trying to get into my house.
operator: what are they doing?
caller: they tied my front door and my shed door, and now they're trying to break in through my gate.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. i've already got officers started. do not hang up, okay?
caller: all right, i have a gun in my hands. i'm terrified.
operator: okay, i've got officers already on the way. i'm going to keep you on the phone until the officers get there, okay?
caller: okay. they're trying the back gate now.
operator: you think they're in the back now?
caller: yes, somebody's in the back and on my porch.
operator: someone's on your porch? please stay calm. can you see anybody?
caller: i hear them, but i'm not sure. somebody's banging on my back door.
operator: are you expecting anybody?
caller: no.
operator: okay. there's no vehicle outside in your driveway?
caller: no, and they're at my back porch.
operator: okay, i'm going to stay on the phone with you until the officers get there. do not hang up. a lot of officers are coming out.
caller: they just broke my upstairs door.
operator: okay, i've got officers coming out as fast as they can. have you heard any voices?
caller: they're coming in right now.
operator: okay, tell me if you see them. tell me what they look like, how many of them are there, whether they're men or women.
caller: i just saw one.
operator: did you see a person or just the shadow?
caller: i saw someone. they're coming in right now, please, please.
operator: they're coming out as fast as they can, i promise you. a lot of officers are responding. i'm typing everything you're telling me and the dispatcher is relaying it to them immediately.
caller: they're breaking my windows.
operator: are you in your bedroom or...?
caller: i'm in my bathroom.
operator: okay, they're coming out as fast as they can. is there an alley behind your house?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, so you back up to the canal, right?
caller: yes.
operator: you don't need to answer anything. i'm going to stay on the line with you, okay?
caller: what is that? what was that?
operator: what happened?
caller: what did you come into my house for? i don't know. i shot him.
operator: you shot him?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, i've got help on the way.
caller: i'm sorry. don't get up or i'll shoot you again.
operator: where did you shoot him? ma'am, where did you shoot him?
caller: he's in my bathroom.
operator: no, where on his body did you shoot him?
caller: he's half in my bathroom and half in the hallway.
operator: do you recognize him? is he someone you know?
caller: no, i don't recognize him. he said he thought the house was abandoned.
operator: it doesn't make sense with a car and locked gates, right?
caller: yes, he was banging and trying to get in. i heard him outside.
operator: okay. the officers are on their way. please stay calm.
caller: please get someone here quickly.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can. are you hurt at all?
caller: my face is bleeding. he was beating on me when he found out i was in here. that's why i dropped the phone and almost dropped the gun.
operator: okay. the officers are in the area now. when you hear them at the door, you're going to have to stay safe. don't leave the bathroom.
caller: i'm not going to walk away from this guy.
operator: right, i'm going to have them come to you. just make sure to put the gun down when you see the officers, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i'm showing they are there. they should be coming inside.
caller: okay, i put the gun down.
operator: alright, i'm going to let you go now, okay?
caller: okay. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, hi. i have a kind of a particular emergency here.
caller: my cat attacked our seven-month-old child, and i kicked the cat in the rear, and it has gone off the edge. we aren't safe around the cat.
caller: it's a very large himalayan, and we're trapped in our bedroom. he won't let us out of the door.
operator: okay. does the child need medical attention?
caller: no. he has some marks on his forehead, but the cat, we don't know what to do about the cat. he's trying to attack us. he's very, very hostile. i tried to get hold of animal control.
operator: hang on just a second. you guys are inside your bedroom right now?
caller: yeah. and if i leave the bedroom to let the police in, i'm going to have to fight this cat.
operator: hang on just a second. when you say the cat is large, how large?
caller: 22 pounds, maybe.
operator: what's the address there? what apartment number?
caller: [address redacted]
operator: i need to put you on hold for just a moment to run something by my supervisor, but i'll be right back, okay? don't hang up.
caller: alright.
operator: and you said your child does not need medical attention, right?
caller: no, he's just got a couple of small punctures.
operator: okay, and do you think the cat is ill?
caller: i don't know. i think the cat has a history of violence. he's kind of a violent cat already.
caller: he's charging us. he's at our bedroom door.
operator: one moment, okay?
caller: you hear him?
operator: i hear him. hold on, keep your door shut, okay? if you need anything, call us back. help is on the way.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need help.
operator: 9-9-9, where's your emergency?
caller: i need some help.
operator: what's going on?
caller: mommy hurts.
operator: do you know your address?
caller: yeah.
operator: what's your address?
caller: your arm hurts?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, what happened?
caller: mommy got hurt.
operator: how did she get hurt?
caller: she fell down.
operator: where did she fall?
caller: right here.
operator: can i talk to her?
operator: ma'am, what's going on?
operator: ma'am? ma'am?
operator: can you give the phone back to your child?
caller: hello?
operator: okay, sweetie, are you on the phone?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, how old are you?
caller: seven.
operator: what's your name?
operator: okay, is mommy bleeding?
caller: yes.
operator: where is she bleeding?
caller: right there next to the window.
operator: is she bleeding on her head?
caller: yeah.
operator: what did she fall on?
caller: next to the dog.
operator: did she trip over the dog?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you stay on the phone with me and get mommy a towel?
caller: i already did.
operator: okay. is it just you and mommy there?
caller: yeah.
operator: is she bleeding anywhere else?
caller: on her head and somewhere else.
operator: stay on the phone with me, okay?
operator: do you know how old your mommy is?
caller: no.
operator: is there anyone else there with you?
caller: no.
operator: can you unlock the door?
caller: i already did.
operator: okay. just stay on the phone with me until the ambulance gets there, okay?
operator: what kind of dog do you have?
caller: apollo.
operator: is he mean?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you put the dog in a room?
caller: okay, i will.
operator: did you put the puppy up?
caller: yes.
operator: is she in the living room or the kitchen?
caller: in the kitchen.
operator: tell her the ambulance is coming.
caller: ambulance is coming over.
operator: does she still have the towel on her head?
caller: yes.
operator: can you see the blood on the towel?
caller: no.
operator: they're almost there, okay?
operator: who are you talking to?
caller: the police.
operator: is someone else there?
caller: no.
operator: what's your daddy's name?
caller: bob.
operator: stay on the phone with me until they get inside.
caller: okay.
operator: are they coming inside?
caller: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's about a quarter mile west of castleton on the railroad tracks. we've got a train that derailed and there's a fire.
operator: okay, a quarter mile west of where?
caller: west of castleton, near the ethanol plant.
operator: okay, let me look on the map to get a better location. you said it's by the ethanol plant?
caller: yes, just between castleton and the ethanol plant on the railroad track.
operator: and you said a quarter mile west of castleton?
caller: yes.
operator: is there a fire?
caller: yeah, there's fire and there's engineers trying to get out of the train right now. i'm heading that way.
operator: do you know how many cars derailed?
caller: i can't tell you at this time. all i know is there's a lot of smoke.
operator: do you know what was in the cars?
caller: it looks like grain cars.
operator: do you know how many people are still in the train?
caller: there's probably three guys in the train. i heard them on the radio. they were trying to get out. i'm not sure if they managed to yet.
operator: alright, we have help on the way. if you get on the scene and have any updates for us, just give us a call back, okay?
caller: okay, thanks.
operator: thanks. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a train derailment near castleton. are you aware of it?
operator: yes, we’ve got help on the way.
caller: alright, thank you. bye.
operator: thanks. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling to report a train derailment.
operator: we’ve received multiple calls on this. thank you.
operator: can you see what's going on?
caller: yeah, the flames are shooting up pretty high.
operator: alright, hold on a second, please.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: i don't know the exact address, but it's near castleton.
operator: are you involved in this at all?
caller: yes, i'm part of the train crew.
operator: do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: nobody's injured at this point that we know of.
operator: and what do you have on board?
caller: ethanol. it's a loaded ethanol and an empty ethanol train.
operator: how many cars are derailed?
caller: i can't tell how many cars for sure, but there's one ruptured car.
operator: alright, we do have people on the way. make sure everyone keeps leaving the scene.
caller: everyone's walking away, yep.
operator: thank you.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm near castleton and there's a huge fire on the railroad track.
operator: we do have that reported and help is on the way.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm near castleton. i see huge black smoke. i don’t know if a house is on fire or what.
operator: we're aware that it's a train derailment with a fire. please stay out of the area.
caller: i'm sorry, i just saw it out my window and wasn't sure if it was reported.
operator: that's okay. thank you.
caller: okay, bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling about the train that's on fire near castleton. i'm part of the train crew.
operator: is there a contact on site?
caller: yes, we're in position here. if we get the okay from someone, we can make a cut on the train and pull part of it away.
operator: hold on for just a second.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 850 highland boulevard at the old convent. there's a fire.
operator: there's a fire at what address, ma'am?
caller: 850 highland boulevard, but they have to come in through columbia. it's the old convent.
operator: what's on fire?
caller: the house. we have an old house and it's burning down.
operator: okay, is this in staten island?
caller: staten island.
scenario:robbery
operator: what streets is that in between?
caller: it's between sand lane and you have to take highland boulevard, make a right on fingerboard and a right on columbia.
operator: okay, ma'am, are you sure the building number is 850?
caller: am i sure? it's 850. that's the school. they have to go past the school, go around, make the right on fingerboard and right on columbia, but please hurry because it's urgent.
operator: okay, that range number is not appropriate for me, so can you give me the cross streets?
caller: highland boulevard between what and what?
operator: are you inside the location that's on fire, ma'am?
caller: no, but please hurry.
operator: ma'am, tell me highland boulevard between what and what?
caller: highland boulevard and it's on sand lane and you have to go. it's highland boulevard. please hurry.
operator: ma'am, is there someone else there i could speak to?
caller: no, i think i'm the only one in the house because we just moved.
operator: okay, ma'am. i need you to relax so i can get some help there. it's highland boulevard, sand lane, and what?
caller: no, not sand lane. highland boulevard. you have to pass 850 highland boulevard, make a right on fingerboard and a right on columbia.
operator: is that west fingerboard road?
caller: no, fingerboard and then a right on columbia. this is staten island.
operator: can you verify the information? what's the address?
caller: 850, highland boulevard. go past 850 highland boulevard, make a right on fingerboard and a right on columbia, and then come straight up into our property.
operator: okay, what's the emergency there?
caller: there's a fire in our house. we built a new house and the old house is on fire.
operator: okay. is that off of sand lane?
caller: yes. hello?
operator: what's the phone number that you're calling from?
caller: 347-224-4310.
operator: the fire department's responding. they're on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, reza, 999.
operator: okay, can you tell me your name and the location of the emergency?
caller: amber, 150 north preston.
operator: okay, 150 north preston. what's the problem?
caller: yes, i had a baby. they were sleeping. she was choking on her vomit, and i don't know what's going on.
operator: is she awake?
caller: no, me and my daughter are here. i'm trying to help, but i really don't know what i'm doing.
operator: okay, i can give you instructions. what i need you to do is lay her on her back.
caller: okay.
operator: put one hand underneath her back and tilt her head slightly back to open the airway.
caller: okay.
operator: is she breathing softly?
caller: i can hear her heart, but i'm not sure if she's breathing.
operator: check if she has a pulse.
caller: yes, she has a pulse, but she's not waking up.
operator: ma'am, i need you to calm down and tell me if she's breathing.
caller: i don't know. all the vomit is out of her mouth.
operator: okay, i need you to roll her onto her side and tap her back gently to make sure the airway is clear.
caller: okay.
operator: now put your mouth over her nose and mouth, give her two breaths, and make sure her chest rises.
caller: okay, it did. her chest rose.
operator: is she breathing on her own now?
caller: yes, she is.
operator: alright, the officer should be on the scene soon. do you hear them?
caller: i hear him.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go now. you're doing great.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we need somebody at the center middle school gym.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: we have an athlete who is on the court, moaning on his back. could be dehydrated, could be having a seizure.
operator: this is at the high school?
caller: no, this is at the middle school.
operator: and it's called the center middle school?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know the actual address there, sir?
caller: hey, does anybody know the address here? 700 east 4th street.
operator: and this is in the gym?
caller: yes.
operator: and your name?
caller: greg hall.
operator: okay, so tell me exactly what happened.
caller: we had basketball tryouts today, the first day of tryouts, and at the end of practice, he just collapsed on the ground.
operator: okay, and are you with him now?
caller: they're on the way, right? yeah. they're on the way, sir.
operator: are you with the patient now?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he is 13 or 14 years old.
operator: is he awake?
caller: they're on their way here, guys. he's awake, but barely.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: is he breathing, mike? very erratic.
operator: okay. and so he just collapsed, like he fainted almost?
caller: almost, yeah.
operator: is he breathing completely normal?
caller: i'm sorry, sir. is he breathing completely normal? no, he is not. his eyes are rolled back a bit.
operator: okay. is he changing color?
caller: yes. mike, what do you say? he's changing color. flip. yeah.
operator: what color?
caller: they're starting to go blue a little bit.
operator: does he have a history of heart problems that you're aware of?
caller: we don't know. nobody's aware of heart problems with this guy, right? no. he's a first-year player. he should have passed a physical, too.
operator: okay. is there a defibrillator on site and ready to use?
caller: yes, there is a defibrillator.
operator: okay. have someone grab that in case we need it later. now, you said he is not alert. is he conscious or unconscious?
caller: what do you say, is he conscious or unconscious, mike? he's semi-conscious.
operator: okay. we're getting no movement. what i want you to do is get him flat on his back, nothing under his head.
caller: okay. yeah, that's where he's at now.
operator: okay. i want you to kneel next to him, look in his mouth. is there any food or vomit?
caller: look in his mouth. is there food or vomit? there's nothing. no, there isn't.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: no. he has stopped breathing.
operator: okay. place your hand on his forehead. your other hand under his neck, then tilt his head back.
caller: yep, it's back.
operator: now i want you to put your ear next to his mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: no.
operator: okay. i'm going to tell you how to give mouth to mouth.
caller: okay, mouth to mouth. go ahead.
operator: if you're trained in cpr, you can certainly perform cpr.
caller: okay. yep, we're doing it now.
operator: okay, so you're doing that now?
caller: yep, we're doing it now.
operator: do you have the defibrillator?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i want you to put the defibrillator on the floor next to his head, on the side closest to you.
caller: okay.
operator: now you want to remove his shirt.
caller: now we have it pulled up. do we need to remove it or can we just pull it up?
operator: as long as you've got his bare chest.
caller: okay. we've got fluid coming out of his mouth. we turned him to the side.
operator: clean out his mouth.
caller: is there someone there that can open the aed and get it set up?
operator: yes, we have three people here.
caller: do you have paramedics there now?
operator: no, not yet.
caller: okay.
operator: are the pads already plugged into the machine, sir?
caller: no.
operator: okay, someone needs to install the pads, plug the pads in. there should be instructions as part of the machine.
caller: okay. we're working on it. can somebody help me out with the pads, you guys? we got cpr going on. we need to get the pads and stuff.
operator: the engine is getting really close.
caller: what do they need out of here to use?
operator: the pads should usually be in a flat foil or plastic package.
caller: can't see the pads? yeah, if they're not plugged in, they're usually in a foil package or some sort of plastic package.
operator: it could be underneath the unit itself.
caller: i'm doing my best. i am. do you find them? we're looking. we've got tons of fluid coming out.
operator: tilt his head to the side and clean out the fluid in his mouth.
caller: we're doing that as much as we can.
operator: you got the eta on these guys?
operator: the engine is pulling up now, but you need to keep working on him.
caller: here they are, guys. here they are.
caller: okay, they're here now.
operator: okay, i'll let you go. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need medical.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: i'm in ucf, lake claire, building 57, third floor, room 311.
caller: my friend was drinking, and she woke me up, and she's sick, and now she's not responding. her eyes were just open, now they're closed.
operator: ma'am, hold on one second. i'm going to transfer you over to the medical department. do not hang up, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: okay, you're at building 57 at ucf?
caller: yes, building 57, room 311 at lake claire apartments on campus.
operator: okay, and your friend is not responding now?
caller: no, she's not. she's purple and clammy and told me her heart hurt.
operator: all right, listen to me. you need to lay her down flat, okay? take any pillows or anything out from underneath her head.
caller: okay.
operator: put one hand on her forehead and one hand under her neck, and tilt her head back. see if that helps with her breathing. how old is she?
caller: she's 18 years old. she's unconscious and not breathing.
operator: okay, put your ear close to her mouth and look at her chest to see if you hear or feel any breathing.
caller: i don't hear or feel anything. her chest isn't rising.
operator: okay, we need to help her. are you able to give her some breaths until help arrives?
caller: yes.
operator: keep her head tilted back, pinch her nose shut, put your mouth over hers, and give her two breaths of air. did you see her chest rise?
caller: no, it didn't.
operator: readjust her head, and then give her two more breaths.
caller: okay, it rose this time.
operator: good. is she breathing on her own now?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: okay, put one hand in the middle of her chest, right between her nipples, and push down firmly about two inches.
caller: she's gasping for air now.
operator: if she's gasping, let's start compressions. can you get her onto the floor, or will you need to do this on the bed?
caller: i can't get her onto the floor. i'll do it on the bed.
operator: all right, do the best you can. with the heel of your hand, press down in the middle of her chest. we're going to pump hard and fast, at least twice per second. do this until help arrives.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight...
operator: if she's breathing, you need to stop and check her pulse.
caller: i can barely feel a pulse. she's gasping for air every few seconds.
operator: i hear the ambulance. go open the door if you can.
caller: okay, i hear them but don't see them yet.
caller: they are here now. thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome. are they with you?
caller: yes, they are.
operator: okay, take care. goodbye.
caller: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we deliver papers out on lakeshore, and we lost contact with two carriers. they were out near m89 and lakeshore.
operator: okay, so you lost contact with the carriers, and they were last near m89 and lakeshore?
caller: yes, we followed their newspapers to the spot where the road is gone, and the water is just rushing up under it. it's bad.
operator: do you think they might have driven over it and fallen in?
caller: we're almost 100% positive. we followed the newspapers up to that point, and there's no trace beyond that.
operator: what's your last name, sir?
caller: h-u-s-u-s.
operator: your first name?
caller: larry.
operator: larry, what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: you can call me at 269...
operator: okay.
caller: yes.
operator: do you think that they might have driven into the water?
caller: yes, we think they drove over that washed out road and fell into the water which runs right into lake michigan.
operator: okay, larry. you have no way of making contact with them at all?
caller: no, there's no way to make contact. the road dead ends, and we can't reach them.
operator: what kind of car are they in?
caller: a green saturn.
operator: where are you right now, larry?
caller: we're at the 34 shell.
operator: okay, one second. i'm just going to try and get somebody down there.
operator: do you see where the car went in?
caller: no, but it's clear the water runs out to the river into lake michigan, and the road is gone.
operator: okay, stay on the line, larry. we need to get the proper information for our officers.
operator: when was the last time you had contact with them?
caller: it's been a couple of hours. another carrier got stuck in the water, and when we went to help, we realized we hadn't heard from them.
operator: you mentioned their names earlier. can you confirm them again?
caller: carissa green and dean taylor.
operator: what kind of car are you in, larry?
caller: i'm in a silver ford f-150.
operator: okay, hang on a second, larry. i'm going to get someone over to you.
caller: you know, we really think this is an extreme emergency.
operator: i understand, sir. please remain at the 34 shell.
caller: we have flashlights and we're considering going back down there.
operator: i don't recommend going back down there if the area is flooded. it's too dangerous.
caller: there is no water on the road, it's just washed out. but it's pitch black and we can't see anything.
operator: okay, but i still don't advise it. stay where you are, and we'll get someone to you.
caller: how long will it take?
operator: i can't give you an exact eta, but we'll try to get someone there as soon as we can.
caller: all right, but we're thinking they drove up to a tree and the road collapsed under them.
operator: so you think the road washed out from under them and they stopped at a tree and then fell in?
caller: yes, there's a tree right on the other side, and we think they drove up to it and the road gave out from under them.
operator: okay. please stay at the 34 shell. we'll get someone there as soon as possible.
caller: okay. we're going down to 2817 lakeshore.
operator: please wait at the 34 shell, larry. we're doing our best to get someone to you.
caller: we're heading to 2817 lakeshore.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is the angus police. i have a bear mauling. i'm out on the trail.
operator: you have a young girl who was mauled by a bear and is in bad shape?
caller: yes, we need paramedics. i just reported it to somebody else who's going to be calling 999.
operator: okay, i'm going to transfer you through to the medics, or did you already talk to them?
caller: i have not talked to anybody yet.
operator: okay, where are you located?
caller: to access us, the easiest way is to go to the hilltop ski area and go down the gas line trail to where it meets campbell creek.
operator: so you're closest to hilltop ski area?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, hold on one second. now that i've got your location, i need to transfer you through to the medics.
caller: thank you.
operator: can you still hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: fire paramedics, what's the location of the emergency?
caller: it is on rovers run trail, and the best way to access that is by the gas line trail.
operator: okay, what's the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i just came across a young girl who was mauled by a bear.
operator: all right. i'm going to ask you some questions about her while my partner gets help started. how old is she?
caller: i believe she's about 15 or 16 years old.
operator: is she conscious? is she breathing?
caller: she is breathing heavily, yes.
operator: when did this happen?
caller: within the last probably 15 to 20 minutes.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: yes, severe bleeding.
operator: are you with her right now?
caller: i am, we're in close proximity to where it happened.
operator: what kind of injuries does she have?
scenario:robbery
caller: it's hard to tell, it's dark, and i dropped my bike down the trail. i don't have a light.
operator: is the animal still nearby?
caller: not that i know of. i hope it's gone away.
operator: how far are you from campbell airstrip road?
caller: if you came up campbell-airstrip road, you would access us by the south bivouac trailhead.
operator: sir, listen, we understand. how far in are you, about a quarter mile?
caller: yes, we're going to come in off the south bivouac trailhead.
operator: okay. our first caller gave us that information and is waiting there for us.
caller: okay, go in the trailhead, and about 100 yards down the trail, there's a right-hand turn.
operator: okay, i got it. now that i've kind of got where you are, hold on while we get the paramedics there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: does she have any serious bleeding?
caller: yes, i would say so.
operator: what i want you to do is get a clean, dry cloth or towel, place it on the wound, and press it down firmly without lifting it up to look.
caller: i don't know exactly where the wound is, that's the problem.
operator: can you ask her where she thinks she's hurt?
caller: do you know where you're hurt?
operator: sir, listen, i have a quick question. how close are you to the campbell airstrip?
caller: we are farther than the actual airstrip. they need to go farther up the road.
operator: how far up the road from the campbell airstrip?
caller: i would say a mile and a half, two miles. there will be two obvious trailheads with big wooden signs.
operator: so they're marked north and south?
caller: yes, they want to go into south bivouac trailhead.
operator: once they get to the south bivouac parking lot, they're going to go down the trail and look to the right for a steep dirt trail?
caller: yes, it leads to a footbridge that crosses the creek, then take a right onto the trail. they should have bear protection.
operator: we're getting the cops to come out there with us.
caller: okay, you're doing great. just hang in there.
operator: is the bear still there?
caller: not that i know of, but it's dark.
operator: do you know what kind of bear it was?
caller: i don't know.
operator: just stay awake and stay alert. is she breathing regularly?
caller: yes, heavy breathing. she's very conscious.
operator: can you hear anybody out there?
caller: no, but there's a bike race going on, so someone might pass by soon. i'll have them flag the paramedics.
operator: okay, that's good. let me know if anything changes.
caller: hey, can you stop, please? we have a bear attack. the paramedics are coming to south bivouac trailhead.
operator: you're doing awesome. just keep calm.
caller: okay, a biker is going up to direct them down to us.
operator: great. how is she doing?
caller: she seems to be doing okay, still conscious and able to move a bit.
operator: okay, just keep her still, we don't want her moving around.
caller: i had to move her a bit from the attack spot but will keep her still now.
operator: you're doing great. do you know how far up campbell airstrip road the trailhead is?
caller: about a mile and a half to two miles. if they start going uphill, they've gone past it.
operator: we've got officers escorting the medics in right now.
caller: good, that should help. we've got another biker arriving.
operator: is that another biker?
caller: yes, they are here to help with flagging down the paramedics.
operator: great. just keep her as still as possible.
caller: we have an emt here now who's assessing her injuries.
operator: that's good. what injuries can you identify now?
caller: a puncture wound to the face and some trauma to the inner thigh.
operator: can you keep a clean, dry cloth on the wound with pressure?
caller: the emt is handling it. the wounds don't seem to be bleeding too badly.
operator: okay, good. just keep her calm and still.
caller: she's doing okay, breathing more steadily now.
operator: let me know if anything changes with her condition.
caller: will do. there seems to be another wound on her back, above her left buttock.
operator: okay, just make sure she stays still.
caller: she's doing great. the medics should be here soon.
operator: you're doing a great job. can you see if the bear did any other damage?
caller: it's hard to tell, but it looks like a puncture wound to her throat area.
operator: we need to assure her that help is on the way.
caller: she knows, she's just trying to stay calm. the medics should be here anytime now.
operator: okay, let me know when they arrive.
caller: will do.
operator: are you still there?
caller: yes, the medics have arrived with the police.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go so you can talk to them. thank you for helping her.
caller: thank you, goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, hi, i'm on daniel street southeast. i'm at around 68 daniel street southeast. there's been a demolition of a house and there is a woman inside. we need someone to come.
operator: you said 68 daniel street southeast? how did the house get demolished?
caller: the house is being demolished by city order. there's a woman inside the house, we need an ambulance immediately.
operator: all right. hold on for a second. you say she's trapped inside?
caller: she's inside underneath the rubble of the house.
operator: hold on, let me get everybody started first. i need to get some more information from you. they're trying to dig her out now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. can i have your name?
caller: yes, my name is devin joyner. i don't know the exact address of the demolished house, but my address is 68 daniel street. the house is just a couple of houses away from mine. if you send someone to my address, i'll guide them.
operator: okay, they're coming to 68 daniel street southeast and you’ll show them exactly where to go?
caller: i'll be in front of my house and guide them once they get here.
operator: do you know anything about the woman?
caller: i don't know anything about her. she’s just under the rubble. we need an ambulance.
operator: i've got fire and police started. i'll get an ambulance started here in just a second. we do have fire and pd started.
caller: okay.
operator: if we need to call you back, is this the best number to reach you?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: all right, thank you.
operator: atlanta operator 5296, i have 68 daniel avenue southeast. a woman is trapped inside a house that’s being demolished by the city.
operator: what's your operator number again?
operator: it's 703. have they already started the demolition?
operator: the house is already demolished, she's trapped inside.
operator: i just wanted to clarify. we’ve got police and fire started.
operator: alright, i'm 703. i'll get someone en route.
operator: atlanta 999 emergency, operator 3659.
caller: we need an ambulance immediately to the corner of daniel street and gartrell. a woman is under the rubble of a house that's being demolished. we called 10 minutes ago, we need an ambulance now.
operator: daniel street and gartrell southeast intersection?
caller: yes, she's trapped under the rubble.
operator: i'll start the fire department while you speak with the ambulance operator. one moment.
operator: grady ems, operator 768. what's the address of your emergency?
caller: it's the corner of daniel street and gartrell southeast. we need an ambulance immediately.
operator: repeat the address to make sure i have it correct.
caller: 52 daniel street, southeast. there's a woman in a house that's being demolished; the roof is on top of her. we called 10 minutes ago and she’s buried in the rubble. we’re waiting for an ambulance.
operator: we're on the way, sir.
caller: all right, thank you.
operator: all right.
operator: fire and pd are already en route. did you hear me?
caller: yes, i heard you.
operator: they gave us a different address, but we have 68 daniel avenue. i’ll let them know about the new address, 52 daniel street and gartrell.
operator: i’ll let them know to respond to that location. daniel avenue is different.
operator: all right, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: just received a 999 call from a male.
caller: i think he just shot someone on his porch.
caller: then he hung up.
operator: we're trying to reach that number. sending units now.
operator: units responding, we have the male on the line.
operator: he's trying to get further information.
operator: what's the address?
caller: it's a dolphin in outer drive.
operator: copy dolphin and outer drive.
operator: rescue 10 is on scene.
operator: we have reports of a black female down on the porch.
caller: copy. black female.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i need an ambulance to 129th, south reno.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: there's a guy who stayed with me last night and he's not responding to me. he takes pain pills and he's not responding to me.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i don't think so.
operator: okay, what is your first name?
caller: my name is jt. cobble, c-o-b-b-e.
operator: what's his name?
caller: he's austin box.
operator: okay, i need you to go check for a pulse for me.
caller: okay.
operator: go on his right side. are you next to him?
caller: yes.
operator: do you feel him breathing at all? put your hand in front of his face. can you feel any air?
caller: no.
operator: check for a pulse.
caller: he's not breathing.
operator: do you want to start cpr?
caller: i don't know how.
operator: you don't know how? okay, i'm going to tell you how, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i need you to place your hand on his forehead and your other hand under his neck and then tilt his head back.
caller: what now?
operator: place your left hand on his forehead. which side are you on?
caller: on his right side.
operator: okay, place your left hand on his forehead and your other hand under his neck and tilt his head back. put your ear next to his mouth and can you hear or feel any breathing?
caller: no.
operator: okay. do you want to start mouth-to-mouth or do you want to do compressions?
caller: i will do compressions.
operator: compressions. okay. what i need you to do is place the heel of your hand on the breastbone in the center of his chest between his nipples. place your other hand on top of that. firmly press down two inches with the heel of your lower hand touching his chest. pump his chest 30 times and count out loud with me.
caller: i'm a little freaked out.
operator: that's all right. i'm here to help. are you doing cpr? are you doing compressions? are you counting?
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven...
operator: keep going. 27, 28, 29.
operator: is the officer there, jt?
caller: yes.
operator: i'm going to let you go. you did good, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: okay, i called before and they came back. i think they are trying to break in.
operator: ma'am, i don't understand. what is the address?
caller: they broke my back door. i'm sorry, i'm trying to calm down.
operator: please, calm down. what happened?
caller: someone is trying to enter my house. they already did!
operator: someone did what?
caller: they're entering my house right now.
operator: there are two guys trying to break into your house?
caller: yes.
operator: can you describe them?
caller: they're two really young african-american guys. they're between 17 and 24 years old.
operator: how are they trying to get in?
caller: they broke my back sliding door.
operator: they broke the back slider?
caller: yes, the door in the back patio.
operator: how old are you?
caller: oh, my god, please hurry up.
operator: any weapons? do you see any weapons?
caller: yes, i'm hiding in my closet.
operator: you're where?
caller: in my closet.
operator: do you have any weapons?
caller: no.
operator: are they still inside?
caller: yes.
operator: what are they doing?
caller: they're stealing. i think they're confused in my daughter's room.
operator: stay on the line. let me add the dispatcher. do not hang up.
caller: i'm here.
operator: do you know what they were wearing?
caller: i'm trying to be quiet.
operator: okay. do you know what they were wearing?
caller: i didn't see the other one well. one of them is wearing a black t-shirt.
operator: do you know them?
caller: no, i've never seen them before.
operator: shhh, okay. they're trying to come into your room?
caller: yes, oh my god, please don't kill me.
operator: be quiet, be quiet, be quiet.
caller: oh, they left. they left.
operator: on foot? what kind of car are they in? do you see?
caller: they're in my driveway.
operator: what kind of car are they in?
caller: a toyota.
operator: what color?
caller: what? they're leaving!
operator: are they backing out?
caller: yes, they left.
operator: which way did they go?
caller: right.
operator: which way? tell me what street.
caller: they're heading towards pinewood cove.
operator: towards what street?
caller: i don't know, they left quickly.
operator: which way did they leave your driveway?
caller: to the right.
operator: okay, to the right is what street?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: stay on the line; the deputy should be near. did the car have tinted windows?
caller: no, they don't have tinted windows.
operator: do you see any tags or fancy rims on it?
caller: yes, the tires are like something young guys would have. they had really nice rims.
operator: do you remember what they were wearing now?
caller: yes, one of them has a little bit of long hair. and was wearing a white shirt.
operator: and the other?
caller: he had long braids and a black shirt.
operator: did they steal anything? did you look around the house?
caller: they were trying to take my daughter's things. they took the mp3 player.
operator: don't touch anything.
caller: okay.
operator: is the deputy there?
caller: yes, they're here now.
operator: go talk to the deputy.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: do i need an ambulance and a police officer?
operator: okay, you need a police officer?
caller: yeah. what's that?
caller: reserve 118 c.c.
operator: okay, 118. yeah. hold on just one second. did you also say you needed an ambulance?
caller: yes, we have a woman here. i don't know if she's breathing or not.
operator: and you're at 118c at the reserve?
caller: 118 c, c, charlie charlie.
operator: okay.
caller: you can't call to her. i just want to call to her phone to call her.
caller: you don't know these fingerprints are on her stuff.
operator: okay. is the patient breathing?
caller: no. it appears like there's been a sexual crime.
operator: okay. is anyone doing cpr?
scenario:fire
caller: no, she's blue.
operator: okay. she's very, she's pretty cold.
operator: all right. hang on my line with me, okay?
caller: yeah. i don't know where her phone is.
operator: you don't know where her phone is. okay.
caller: are we coming?
operator: yes, i don't know why. come on, both sides. come on, go outside. come on, let's go outside.
operator: okay, is the road name reserve boulevard?
caller: no, the reserve. the clemson, you're the student reserve, all the kids live, right next to university village.
operator: next to university village, okay.
caller: yes, the reserve.
operator: okay. what's your name?
operator: do you know this lady's name?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what's her name?
caller: tiffany sowers.
operator: do you know how she spells her last name?
caller: s-o-u-r-e-s.
caller: s-o-u-r-u-u-r-u-s.
operator: i'll stand-by.
caller: s-o-u-e-r-s.
caller: s-o-u-u. erf.
operator: okay. how old is she? do you know?
caller: 19 years old. 20 years old.
operator: does somebody live with her?
operator: okay, sir, we're going to get the medics and police notified.
caller: thank you.
operator: okay. and you and this girl just walked in and found her, is that right?
caller: i'm sorry, say again?
operator: okay, who's the lady with you? did you just walk in and find her like this?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, where is she at in the house?
caller: she's in her bedroom.
operator: she's in the bedroom? okay.
operator: okay, sir, central pd and the medics are on the way, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm on, uh, southbound old 23 turning, um, westbound on, uh, hilton, and i'm behind an oldsmobile bravada, license plate ceg 8148, and it's been all over the road.
operator: what color is the vehicle?
caller: red.
operator: so you're now on hilton?
caller: i'm on hilton going westbound.
operator: what is your name?
caller: now it just went over her lawn. now it's just going right into, oh, my god. she just hit a tree.
operator: she hit a tree?
caller: oh, no, now she got back on the road. she's all over the place. oh, she just made another car go off the road.
operator: did she actually hit the tree?
caller: no, she missed it. dear god, i don't know how.
operator: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my name is [caller]. my husband collapsed on the floor.
operator: okay, and the phone number you're calling from?
caller: you need to know my address to get in the door.
operator: ma'am, stay on the line with me. are you with him now?
caller: yes, he's right next to me. he's turning blue.
operator: how old is he?
caller: sixty-one and in perfect health.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: no, he's not.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: barely. his tongue is swelling.
operator: he may be having a seizure. can you hear him?
caller: yes, i can.
operator: don't hang up. stay on the line. we're going to get him some help. did you see what happened?
caller: he was just sitting there, drinking his coffee, and he said 'ow' and fell forward.
operator: did he choke on anything?
caller: no, he just drank his coffee.
operator: okay, is there a defibrillator available?
caller: no.
operator: i'm sending the paramedics to help you now. stay on the line, and i'll tell you exactly what to do next. are you right by him now?
caller: yes, the hardest thing is getting him through the door.
operator: listen carefully. lay him flat on his back on the ground and remove any pillows.
caller: okay, he’s flat on his back, but he's not breathing.
operator: kneel next to him and look in his mouth for food or vomit.
caller: there’s nothing in his mouth.
operator: okay, place your hand on his forehead, your other hand under his neck, and tilt the head back.
caller: okay.
operator: put your ear next to his mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: no, there's nothing.
operator: okay, listen carefully. i'll tell you how to do chest compressions.
caller: okay.
operator: make sure he's flat on his back. place the heel of your hand on the breastbone in the center of his chest, right between the nipples. put your other hand on top of that.
caller: yes.
operator: i want you to pump the chest hard and fast, at least twice per second.
caller: okay, i'm doing it.
operator: let the chest come all the way up between pumps. keep going until we've done 400 compressions.
caller: okay, i'm at 100. dear god, bring him back to life.
operator: you’re doing great. keep those compressions going hard and fast.
caller: he’s breathing, but it's shallow. can you hear him?
operator: i can hear. it sounds like agonal breathing.
caller: what is that?
operator: it's not effective breathing, but you're doing great. keep going. is your front door unlocked?
caller: no, but it's 20 feet away. i don’t want to stop.
operator: you're doing great. keep compressions going. they’ll get in.
caller: his color's coming back.
operator: that’s a good sign. keep those compressions going.
caller: he's got a bump on his forehead; he probably hit the rug.
operator: okay, keep going. make sure you're in the center of his chest, between the nipples. are they at the door?
caller: i see the vehicles, but nobody's come in.
operator: they’re coming up. you've done a fantastic job.
caller: thank you. he’s breathing better now.
operator: that’s great to hear. keep him comfortable and stay with him until help arrives.
caller: they're here. thank you so much.
operator: they're going to take good care of him. god bless you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, there has been a murder-suicide. there are no survivors. please send help.
operator: what's the address of your emergency?
caller: my ex-boyfriend broke into my house and killed my current boyfriend and then killed himself.
operator: okay, did you just find them?
caller: no, he killed my current boyfriend and then he held me hostage and just shot himself in the head.
operator: just now?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. did he hurt you?
caller: he kind of beat me up, and my parents aren't home. it's just me, and i'm 17.
operator: what's his name?
caller: brian white and jake burns are the victims.
operator: burns, b-u-r-n-s?
caller: yes.
operator: where are the weapons right now?
caller: the axe is in jake's head and the gun is in brian's hand.
operator: where are you inside the house?
caller: i'm sitting in our breakfast nook. brian's in the living room. there's the kitchen between us.
operator: okay. don't touch anything, okay? can you do me a favor? can you go sit on the porch?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: desiree staper.
operator: are you okay to walk?
caller: i can't walk. he beat me up.
operator: okay, just stay there. are you still tied up?
caller: no.
operator: do you need an ambulance?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what happened?
caller: i put too much pressure on my leg.
operator: how long did he hold you captive?
caller: since about eight o'clock this morning.
operator: did he break into the house?
caller: yeah, he watched my mom leave and came in while jake and i were sleeping.
operator: okay, are you on the porch right now?
caller: yes, but my leg really hurts.
operator: okay, do you need an ambulance?
caller: i need a medic, yes, but i don't need to go to the hospital.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. just stay on the line with me.
caller: i just want to get these bodies out of my house.
operator: okay, we'll take care of that. is there anyone else in the house?
caller: no.
operator: where does brian live?
caller: i don't know his address, but he lives on houghton.
operator: okay, do you know his middle name and date of birth?
caller: his middle name is douglas. he would be 20 tomorrow.
operator: the officer should be approaching you right now. stay on the line with me until you're with the officer, okay?
caller: yes, he's coming up right now.
operator: okay, go ahead and talk to the officer, desiree.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: god, help! please!
operator: what's going on?
caller: please! somebody killed my mother! oh, my god!
operator: i don't understand what you're saying. you need to stop screaming.
caller: somebody killed my mother.
operator: somebody did what?
caller: somebody killed my mother.
operator: somebody killed your mother.
caller: yeah, please help me.
operator: where are you? what's the address?
caller: 7019 south yale.
operator: does she need an ambulance?
caller: i don't know, i'm scared, please.
caller: please send an ambulance, yes.
operator: hold on the line, don't hang up.
operator: where are you?
caller: i'm at 7019 south yale.
operator: what's going on?
caller: i don't know. it looks like she's been shot.
caller: can you please get an ambulance?
operator: what happened?
caller: i don't know. she's on the floor and there's blood coming from her head.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: i don't know, i didn't touch her. i just ran out of the house.
operator: do you know what happened? did she fall?
caller: no, i just got home from work and there's a bullet hole in our front door.
operator: there's a bullet hole in the front door?
caller: yeah.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 50.
caller: please help my mom.
operator: are you guys in the house?
caller: yes, please. just send the ambulance.
operator: all right, 7019 south yale.
caller: yes.
operator: all right, we're on our way.
operator: is this a house or apartment?
caller: it's a house. on the first floor.
operator: okay, what's your last name?
caller: my last name is hudson.
operator: do you see any blood on her?
caller: i don't know, i'm scared.
operator: okay, the police and the ambulance are on the way, okay?
caller: my mom, my mom.
operator: the ambulance and the police are on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: mom, i'm in the shop right now. i'm going to put my car and it got me in the car.
operator: where are you?
caller: i don't know. they got my car and i'm in the car right now.
caller: all right, it's a truck. i have my cell. he put me in the back of the truck.
caller: i'm not sure if i can call that my truck. i don't know what to do right now.
caller: i think i'll probably leave the ground so i can't touch.
operator: okay, stop screaming because i can't understand you.
caller: okay.
operator: are you in the trunk of a vehicle?
caller: sure.
operator: okay. where did they pick you up?
caller: i don't know where i'm at.
operator: where did you start out?
caller: i started out somewhere in the city.
caller: mom, i'm in the shop right now. i'm trying to put my car and they got me in the car.
caller: i can't stand out. i don't know where i am.
operator: okay, no problem.
caller: so he took my car and put me in front of a truck. now i'm in the back of the truck.
caller: it's my truck. i can't talk right now.
operator: okay, stop screaming because i can't understand you.
caller: okay.
operator: are you in the trunk of a vehicle?
caller: sure.
operator: okay. where did they pick you up?
caller: i don't know where i'm at.
operator: where did you start out?
caller: did you start somewhere in the city?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we're, um, at the corner of 119 and county road 1. we just saw a plane go down.
operator: where exactly?
caller: the corner of 119 and county road 1.
operator: right there in the intersection?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what direction from mclean?
caller: i'm facing south right now. it's in the south field on that intersection.
operator: did you see any smoke or flames?
caller: no, but we heard it go boom. we don't see any smoke or flames yet.
operator: did you witness it go down?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: sabrina.
operator: can i get a phone number, please?
operator: what kind of plane was it, do you think?
caller: it looks just a white, maybe a two-seater.
operator: have you pulled over? can you see it?
caller: i'm at work on lunch right now. we could see it go down from across where we're at.
operator: alright, thank you very much. we're on our way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, longmont, colorado, about three miles to the south of union reservoir. a plane just crashed.
operator: okay, you said three miles south of union reservoir?
caller: yeah, we're on 1640 bluefield. i'm sitting on my porch and it spiraled down below the treetops and i heard the impact.
operator: okay. we actually have other calls and we're going to head that way.
scenario:domestic
caller: alright, very good. thanks.
operator: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm calling from highway 119 and county road 1.
operator: okay, is this about the plane?
caller: it is.
operator: are you actually close enough to where the plane crashed?
caller: yeah, it crashed a couple hundred feet in front of me as i was driving.
operator: have you seen anyone get out of the plane?
caller: i have not.
operator: i just want to confirm it was a small white plane, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: and is it southeast of your location?
caller: no, it's north of me. a police officer just showed up.
operator: okay, i'll let you go. should i go talk to him about what i saw?
caller: yes, go ahead and contact them. they'll probably be going to the plane crash first.
operator: alright, thank you.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, are you calling about the plane crash?
operator: we do have it, sir, but did you witness it?
caller: i did see it go down, but i didn't see it crash.
operator: what's your name?
caller: brian larche.
operator: thank you very much. what's a phone number you can be reached at?
operator: can you tell me where you saw it go down?
caller: i was at the country club, and it looks like it is right behind some houses there.
operator: is it to the north?
caller: south of 119 and west of the county line.
operator: so southwest corner?
caller: yes, but more behind those houses there.
operator: do you think it's behind walmart to the south of walmart?
caller: it's definitely quite a bit further west of walmart.
operator: so it's south and west?
caller: yes.
operator: did you see any smoke or flames?
caller: i just saw some dust come up. i definitely heard it hit.
operator: okay, sir, thank you very much. we're on our way.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, this is the city of longmont over at public works. there's been a plane crash in our area.
operator: okay, what's the address?
caller: 375 st. vrain road.
operator: hold on for me just one moment.
operator: dispatch, this is beth.
caller: hey beth, it's jan from estes. i heard about a cessna that went down.
operator: yes, ma'am, but i'm not able to take your call right now. i believe we've got a second plane crash. you'll need to call back, i'm sorry.
caller: are you with what agency?
operator: i'm with estes. my sergeant's son is up in a cessna.
operator: i'm sorry, i'm working two plane crashes right now. please call back in a few.
caller: no worries. alright, bye.
operator: thanks for holding. are you calling about a plane crash at the airport?
caller: yes.
operator: were you involved?
caller: no, i'm an employee.
operator: okay, you're an employee? where did it crash?
caller: into the back of our yard on the south side of our facility.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 375 south airport.
operator: any injuries?
caller: yes, there's a lady. they pulled her out of the plane. she's conscious.
operator: are you with her now?
caller: no.
operator: did you witness it?
caller: i did not.
operator: alright, we're on our way, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: uh-huh, bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
operator: what is the address of your emergency?
caller: okay, and what city is this in?
operator: okay, and are you in a subdivision or a mobile park?
caller: no, it's a house, and we're right on the road, right in front of gwen smith's house.
operator: right in front of which house?
caller: gwen smith.
operator: okay, and what's your name, please?
caller: what's the phone you are calling from?
operator: okay, and what's the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: our snake, we have a burmese python, and she's about 12 feet long. she got out of the cage last night and got into the baby's crib and strangled her to death.
caller: i'm going to kill the snake!
operator: stay on the line, please.
operator: okay, i do have help on the way there for you. sir, i need to ask you a few more questions, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 1620 green place.
operator: 1620 what?
caller: green place.
operator: green place. green like the color?
caller: yeah.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling me from?
caller: 
operator: okay, tell me what happened.
caller: she cut me.
operator: who cut you?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, hold on.
caller: i'm downstairs.
operator: okay. who cut you?
caller: there's a girl i responded to.
operator: what did she cut you with?
caller: i'm pregnant. she got me in my stomach.
operator: she cut you in your stomach?
caller: yes, i'm pregnant.
operator: okay. what is the suspect's name?
caller: i don't remember.
operator: what's your name?
caller: 
operator: you need to stay on the phone with me, okay? i'm getting everybody to you.
caller: 
operator: don't hang up. stay with me, okay?
caller: 
operator: can you grab a towel or anything you can get and put it on your wound and press?
caller: 
operator: how far along are you?
caller: seven months.
operator: are you alone in the house?
caller: i don't know.
operator: you're downstairs in the basement. are you alone?
caller: yeah.
operator: michelle, don't go to sleep, okay? stay on the phone with me.
caller: 
operator: did she have any other weapons besides a knife?
caller: she broke a glass.
operator: did she stab you with the broken glass as well?
caller: yeah.
operator: michelle, think hard and tell me who did this. think real hard, okay?
caller: i don't know.
operator: did she break into the house? does she live there?
caller: no, it's her house.
operator: so you're a renter there and she's the owner of the house?
caller: no. i responded to a crisis.
operator: okay, everybody's headed your way, alright? can you spell your last name for me?
caller: 
operator: do you have a towel on the wound?
caller: no.
operator: take a towel and put it on your wound. how many wounds do you have?
caller: more than one.
operator: more than one?
caller: yes.
operator: was anyone else in the house when this happened?
caller: no, just you and her.
operator: were you having a fight?
caller: no, i was just trying to leave.
operator: how old are you?
caller: 26.
operator: what's your apartment number?
caller: 1620. it's the first one in the row.
operator: 1620 green place like the color?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, you stay on the phone with me, alright? they're on their way. stay with me.
caller: i heard the doorbell.
operator: i heard the doorbell. is that them?
caller: help, help! please!
operator: are they in the house yet?
caller: yes, they're here.
operator: okay, i'll let you go.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is at 711 horseshoe loop. somebody has been shot.
operator: are you calling for the police and an ambulance?
caller: yes, we are across the road from it. i don't know the exact number.
operator: do you know who got shot?
caller: it's an investigator who has been staying over there. they said to call an ambulance, he’s been shot.
operator: who got shot, ma'am?
caller: i think it's joe harris. he's been working with ed morrison.
operator: okay, ma'am. we need to get more information. she's outside yelling?
caller: yes, she's been shot. please call an ambulance.
operator: we are calling for an ambulance right now. the address is 678 horseshoe loop?
caller: yes, it’s right across the street. we don't have a phone inside there.
operator: how far is it from your house?
caller: we can see the light on their porch, which is literally across the street.
operator: could you call the sheriff's department directly?
caller: oh, okay. i thought this was the same place.
operator: we're sending quite a few officers out there now.
caller: do you know how many officers are up there? i'm talking to joe harris.
operator: okay, joe harris. do you know who shot him?
caller: no, we don't know who shot him. just send somebody fast with an ambulance.
operator: we are sending everyone over there right now, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: if anything else happens, give us a call right back.
caller: alright.
operator: i don't want to put you in any danger. if you feel unsafe, lock your doors and windows and stay inside, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: brompton down on walmson.
caller: hey, it's a part on mavon street.
caller: up here by walmart, chasing us.
operator: where are you at?
caller: on mavon street.
operator: where in walmart?
operator: where are you at on mavon street?
caller: coming in, on white, war.
operator: i can't understand you. please repeat that.
caller: at walmart, keep going, keep going, keep going.
operator: which walmart are you going to?
caller: oh, down mavon street. what does that mean?
caller: shit.
operator: you're on north mavin.
caller: next one.
caller: new walmart is.
operator: okay.
caller: we're not going up, mavin street.
operator: can you drive back to the police department?
caller: he goes to the police department, he said.
operator: why are they chasing you?
caller: i don't know. he's crazy.
operator: who is he?
caller: randy warren.
operator: okay.
caller: are you going on, you gonna get on church street or what?
caller: we're coming to the police department, i guess.
caller: damn, he's trying to pass us.
caller: drell, man!
caller: he's not liking this one bit.
operator: where are you?
caller: over here by mavin street.
caller: going on mavin street again.
caller: this motherfucker is tripping.
caller: oh, god.
caller: come on, god, maher.
operator: all right, i got an officer headed your way if you can tell me where you're at.
caller: what?
operator: where are you at on mavin street?
caller: up here by the store, by the store, by the store, by the store.
operator: which store?
caller: i'm going down mavon street now.
caller: shit. i don't know.
operator: are you going toward the police department?
caller: i'm coming up on tucker street.
operator: you need to slow down.
caller: i'm in their car.
operator: okay, where are you at on mavin street?
caller: up here by island street.
caller: the motherfucker is crazy.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: a honda, and it's a white car.
caller: we're all kidding.
caller: he just hit us! oh, god!
caller: oh, god!
caller: keep it going! keep it going! keep it going!
caller: he just hit my motherfucking car.
caller: hello.
operator: i'm still here, ma'am.
caller: hold on.
caller: he just hit her.
operator: he just hit your car?
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in the honda.
operator: what's he in?
caller: he's in a white... something.
operator: go to the police station if you can.
operator: what's your name?
caller: john's rail russell.
operator: huh?
caller: john's rail russell.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from, john?
operator: all right, where are you heading now?
caller: coming up towards the police station.
scenario:medical
operator: what street are you on?
caller: i don't know. we're at the police station now.
operator: i need to know what street you are on to get you some help.
caller: oh, come on now.
operator: what street are you on?
caller: he's just left. he's at the light. y'all need to come out and arrest his ass.
operator: i'm trying to get you some help. where are you at?
caller: we're in the police station parking lot.
caller: he just ran the light.
operator: you're at the police station?
caller: yeah.
operator: are you in the front lot or back lot?
caller: in the back lot.
caller: they're going the wrong way.
operator: are you in the parking lot?
caller: yes.
caller: what do they do?
caller: he kept going the wrong way.
operator: what is he driving?
caller: a white something. an oldsmobile or something.
caller: he's on church street, i guess.
operator: what's nearby?
caller: fisher west.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance.
operator: quick to stop for an end-night.
caller: oh my god.
operator: any masks?
operator: how can we help you?
caller: i'm getting an ambulance at 351 wayside drive.
operator: 351 wayside?
caller: yes.
operator: is it a house? an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: okay.
operator: what's going on? what's the emergency?
caller: my sister has... she has hurt her child...
operator: hello? tell me what's going on. don't talk to the other people. talk to me.
caller: my sister has... she's hurt her child. seriously hurt her child.
operator: how did she do that? what's going on with the child?
caller: the baby is dead.
operator: what did you say?
caller: the baby is dead. maybe three weeks old? not even three weeks old.
operator: not even three weeks old?
caller: yes.
operator: what did she do to him?
caller: she stabbed him. there's blood all over the bed. i don't know.
operator: all right, ma'am, i'm going to connect you up to the police, okay? stay on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: ma'am, what is your name?
caller: my name is priscilla.
operator: where is your sister?
caller: she's just sitting on the couch. she's gone crazy last night. she was hearing voices. she kept bringing me the baby and finally she calmed down and i took her back to the baby. and then now i just woke up to her screaming.
operator: okay, how old is the baby?
caller: not even three weeks old.
operator: is your baby breathing?
caller: the baby's dead.
caller: somebody called.
operator: help is on the way, okay?
caller: i need the keys so i can open the front door.
operator: do not touch the baby. don't disturb anything in the area, okay?
caller: my mom is holding the baby.
operator: all right. help is on the way.
caller: i need to find the keys for the front door.
operator: is your sister near you?
caller: yes.
caller: she stabbed herself.
operator: priscilla, where did she stab herself?
caller: in the heart and in the stomach, she says.
operator: you said there's a stab wound on her heart?
caller: yes, i'm looking at her right now.
operator: okay. help is on their way.
caller: oh my god.
caller: mama, calm down.
caller: i didn't mean to do what he told me to.
operator: ma'am?
caller: yes?
operator: i'm going to go ahead and let you go, okay? help is on their way. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm going to know what are you going to take?
operator: i'm sorry, i don't understand. what's going on?
caller: i can't understand you.
operator: please speak clearly.
caller: one person talking a guy.
operator: i can't understand. can you clarify what's happening?
caller: what if the american civic association is on tuscary and is someone shooting upstairs?
operator: is someone shooting?
caller: yes.
operator: shooting what?
caller: i don't know. i didn't see them, but we can certainly hear them.
operator: how many shots did you hear?
caller: oh, god, probably 15 or 20.
operator: what's your last name?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a suspicious subject in the area, i'm turning on sharon drive now.
operator: copy that, can you provide a description of the subject?
caller: approximately 5'7" to 5'10", looks like a killer build.
operator: understood. are you following the subject now?
caller: yes, i am coming into frontway, i might see them.
operator: alright, please keep your distance. are there any other people around?
caller: there are a couple of people at a residence on boeing. i'll check if anyone matches the description.
operator: okay, proceed with caution. is there anything else you need?
caller: i'm at somerset central now. can you dispatch another car to assist msp at minokin manor?
operator: copy that, dispatching another unit to assist. is there a suspicious vehicle involved?
caller: yes, a vehicle is not stopping. it's a tan colored suv, southbound on route 13.
operator: can you provide the current location and direction of the vehicle?
caller: we just passed lyndon avenue, southbound. the vehicle isn't stopping.
operator: copy, unit is en route to your location. continue to provide updates.
caller: passing sha now. the suv is still southbound, i can't get a tag number.
operator: understood. can you confirm the make and model of the vehicle again?
caller: it looks like a blazer or a bravada. he went around our roadblock, not trying to stop.
operator: okay, proceed with caution. where are you now?
caller: coming up on king miller now, heading north again. the tag does not come back in our system.
operator: copy that. continue to follow from a safe distance and update us frequently.
caller: we are northbound, just past sha. speed is increasing to about 80 now.
operator: understood, maintain a safe distance. additional units are en route.
caller: approaching the bridge, passing wilson landing now.
operator: copy, keep us updated.
caller: he's turning onto revels neck now, slowing down.
operator: proceed with caution. stay behind the suspect vehicle.
caller: turning left on revels neck, suspect possibly heading back northbound.
operator: copy that. is there any damage to the suspect vehicle?
caller: he's on the rim now, one tire is down.
operator: understood, do not engage directly, wait for backup.
caller: shots fired, shots fired! start ems immediately.
operator: copy, shots fired. ems is en route to your location.
caller: we're at revels neck and route 13. suspect may have shot himself.
operator: copy that, maintain your position. additional units and ems are en route.
caller: scene is secure. suspect is down.
operator: understood. ensure the area is secure for ems arrival.
caller: roadway is shut down, ems can come south-bound.
operator: copy that. contacting state highway for additional support.
caller: okay, waiting for backup.
operator: backup is on the way. stay safe and keep us posted.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know. there's a lady lying out here on the sidewalk.
operator: okay. she's bleeding?
caller: yes, she's bleeding.
operator: are you with the lady now?
caller: yes, she's right here.
operator: okay, hold on one second here. let me write down what you're saying, okay? stay with me.
caller: okay.
operator: how old is the lady?
caller: i don't know. she's my neighbor. she just moved in like two days ago. she looks like she's probably in her early 30s.
operator: okay, and is she awake? is she breathing?
caller: yeah, she's breathing. but she's going in and out.
operator: stay with me. what happened?
caller: i don't know. i don't know.
operator: is she completely alert?
caller: no, kind of. she's looking at me.
operator: okay, do you have an ambulance coming?
caller: yeah, we're going to get the ambulance started right now.
operator: hold on for me. do not hang up, okay?
caller: okay, i won't hang up.
operator: where is she bleeding from?
caller: i don't know. it's on her arms. under her arm. i don't know exactly where it's coming from.
operator: okay, paramedics are on the way. can you check if her baby is in there? she's got a four-and-a-half-year-old.
caller: she just moved in.
operator: so what exactly happened? her husband shot everybody?
caller: that's what she said. her husband shot everybody.
operator: is the baby okay?
caller: i don't know. where did her husband go?
operator: do you know if he left or did he shoot himself?
caller: i don't know. did he leave or shoot himself?
operator: give me the address where the woman is, please.
caller: 4350 heiden way.
operator: okay, 4350. hold on one second, you're doing a great job.
caller: okay.
operator: okay, and she looks like she's in her early 30s, right? is she still responsive?
caller: she's not really responsive, just kind of looking at me.
operator: okay. just hang in there, everybody is coming. is the bleeding under control?
caller: i think so. i can't see an entrance wound.
operator: can you get a clean, dry cloth to press on the wound?
caller: i’m getting something. her hand looks like it's shot.
operator: press down firmly and don’t lift it up.
caller: okay, it doesn't look like she's bleeding out anymore.
operator: okay, where is her husband now?
caller: i don't know, she's not answering.
operator: is there any way she can get herself outside the house?
caller: she's already outside.
operator: okay, and how many people are in the house?
caller: three that i know of.
operator: are you in a safe spot?
caller: yes, i'm outside her house, but i don't want to go any closer.
operator: okay, that's good. the police are coming and they'll handle it. just stay where you are.
caller: okay.
operator: can you see any movement in the house?
caller: no, just music playing. i heard noise earlier.
operator: fire department is staged on garrity. just make sure you're safe.
caller: i know, i'll try.
operator: what's her husband's name? is she able to tell you?
caller: she's not talking.
operator: okay, just hang in there.
operator: the ambulance and police are coming. they are almost there.
caller: okay. i hear sirens.
operator: alright. if you need to leave because you're in harm's way, do it. i don't want anybody else hurt.
caller: alright, i hear the sirens coming closer.
operator: you're doing a wonderful job. stay with me.
caller: okay.
operator: once they get there, follow their instructions, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there is a guy with a gun at the casey's on ames.
operator: which casey's?
caller: the lincoln way one.
operator: how do you know he has a gun?
caller: because i can see it, and i just heard it go off, and now he's walking towards my car.
operator: is it a shotgun or a handgun?
caller: it's a pistol. and now he's walking back in.
operator: walking back into the store?
caller: yeah, the girl was screaming. i heard shots, but i don't know.
operator: stay on the line, you might not hear me for a moment.
caller: i don't want to sit here in case, you know.
caller: should we go hide behind the building or something?
caller: he's a black man. he's wearing a black cap. he's got a white shirt with a black vest on, and now he's running southwest.
operator: southwestbound? okay, i'm hearing you. what direction is he going?
caller: i'm horrible with directions, okay? he's going towards arnold motor supply.
caller: is she okay? i don't know. i ran the hell away.
caller: she's bleeding.
caller: she's laying on the ground next to the kitchen.
caller: there's like a shell sitting on the table.
operator: i'm putting you on hold for just a second.
caller: lock the door. lock it.
operator: can i get your first name?
caller: jennifer.
operator: jennifer, okay, thanks. my name's michelle.
operator: are you still with me?
caller: yes.
operator: i've got medical coming. can you try not to touch anything?
operator: okay, i've got an officer there. can you talk to them?
caller: yeah, he just pulled up.
operator: okay, can you tell them what you saw?
caller: yes.
operator: thank you for calling in.
caller: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my girlfriend just pulled up and there's a guy that pulled up in a truck behind her. we think he has a gun.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 914 stephen street, jessup, iowa. i mean, they're arguing by a truck. we've seen a gun.
operator: okay, hold on just a second.
caller: okay.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: chase weber.
operator: trace weber?
caller: chase, c-h-a-s-e.
operator: and it was your girlfriend that just got home?
caller: yes.
operator: what's her name?
caller: lindsay nichols.
operator: do you know who the person is in the truck?
caller: i'm assuming it's her ex, but i don't know his name or who he is.
operator: what kind of truck is it?
caller: it looks like a chevy, maybe a colorado? i'm not sure.
operator: do you know what color it is?
caller: silver, hurry, please.
scenario:robbery
operator: the police are on the way. i'm talking to you as they are en route, okay? so you don't need to be yelling at me.
caller: i'm sorry. i'm just looking out the window.
operator: what color is the truck?
caller: silver or gray, i believe.
operator: if it leaves before the officers get there, let me know. is lindsay still outside?
caller: oh, my gosh!
operator: what's happening?
caller: he just shot her! he just shot her!
operator: stay on the line. the police are almost there.
caller: he shot her and then shot himself! i think he's down. i can't see where she's been shot. lindsay, where have you been hit?
operator: i'm paging the ambulance right now, just hold on.
caller: i don't know where she's been hit.
operator: can you check her safely?
caller: i don't know what to do.
operator: okay, is the officer there?
caller: yes, he’s assessing the scene.
operator: all right, the officer is there and i have an ambulance on the way, so i'm going to let you go, okay?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: everyone hates emergency?
caller: yeah, can you please send rescue?
caller: i think i'm having an overdose; me and my wife.
operator: okay, do you and your wife?
caller: yes.
operator: overdose of what?
caller: marijuana, but i don't know if it had something in it.
operator: okay, can you please send rescue?
operator: how old are you? i'm 28, 29 years old and my wife is 26. please come.
operator: have you guys been drinking also?
caller: what?
operator: have you guys been drinking today, too?
caller: no, that's it. no. and is there any weapons in the house?
operator: no, please come.
operator: okay, we're on our way. do you guys have a fever or anything?
caller: no, i'm just, i think we're dying.
operator: okay, how much did you guys have?
caller: i don't know. we made brownies. and i think we're dead. i really do.
operator: okay, how much did you put in the brownies?
caller: i don't know. was it a lot?
operator: who made the brownies?
caller: my wife and i did.
operator: okay, get her.
caller: she's on the living room ground right now.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: she's barely breathing.
operator: is she awake?
caller: i think so.
operator: okay, can you look?
caller: pardon?
operator: can you look?
caller: yeah, i could feel her. she's laying right down in front of me. time is going by really, really, really, really slow.
operator: okay, well, i'm on the phone with you. do you know how much of it you bought and put in the brownies?
caller: pardon?
operator: how much did you buy?
caller: i don't, just please send rescue.
operator: they're on the way, but i'm trying to figure out how much you bought and put into the brownies, sir.
caller: probably like a quarter ounce total.
operator: a quarter ounce total into the brownies? did you guys eat all the brownies?
caller: yeah, we did.
operator: okay, and you ate all of them? how many? was it a big batch, a little batch?
caller: it was a quarter ounce.
operator: okay, but brownie-wise, how many pieces do you guys think you had?
caller: i don't know. i probably had, like, a small chunk. please come. what time is it?
operator: it's 9:37. when did you guys last eat the brownies?
caller: probably like an hour and a half ago.
operator: okay, is your wife still breathing?
caller: yeah, she is. she's kneeling down in front of me.
operator: okay, and is she stacey sanchez?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is edward.
operator: your edward sanchez?
caller: yes.
operator: and did you guys have any other sort of drugs you know of?
caller: pardon?
operator: did you guys do anything else today besides marijuana?
caller: no, that's it. but i don't know what was in it. the marijuana could have had something in it.
operator: okay, are you guys on any sort of prescription pills? do you take any other medications?
caller: no, i don't. my wife takes vicodin, though.
operator: did she take any today?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: okay, where's the vicodin?
caller: the vicodin is in our medicine cabinet.
operator: okay, does she take it on a regular basis?
caller: yeah.
operator: how many does she take on a regular basis?
caller: like, i don't know, five a day. please come.
operator: she takes about five a day?
caller: yeah.
operator: they are on the way. it's 9:38.
caller: okay.
operator: how many does she take a day?
caller: she takes like five a day.
operator: is there any animals in the house?
caller: is there any what?
operator: do you have any dogs? i'll put them away for you.
caller: okay.
operator: is the front door open?
caller: yeah, the front door's open. come here.
operator: is the porch light on?
caller: pardon?
operator: is the porch light on?
caller: yes, the porch light is on.
operator: are there any weapons in the house?
caller: you already asked me that.
operator: and what did you say?
caller: no.
operator: okay, where is the weapon?
caller: it's in my closet.
operator: is that in the back bedroom?
caller: yeah, in the front bedroom.
operator: okay.
caller: what's the fda at right now?
operator: they're on the way, sir.
operator: do you guys do this on a regular basis?
caller: no, this is the first time we've ever done it.
operator: and you've never done marijuana before?
caller: yeah, i have.
operator: and you've never had this reaction to it before?
caller: no, never.
caller: what's this score in the red wings game?
operator: what?
caller: what's the score in the red wings game?
operator: i have no clue. i don't watch the red wings.
caller: okay, i just want to make sure this isn't some type of, like, hallucination that i'm having.
operator: why? what's the score say?
caller: three to three.
operator: what channel is it on?
caller: channel two.
operator: it's two to two.
caller: okay. your police, tell your officers, they just passed me.
operator: okay, they just passed you?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, go outside and flag them down.
caller: okay, my mother-in-law just got here, too.
operator: okay.
operator: alrighty.
operator: bye-bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm...
caller: my friend, i think he's having a lot of health problems. he's unconscious on the floor now.
operator: okay, ma'am, ma'am, okay, hold on just one second, okay?
caller: oh, my god, hurry.
operator: okay, listen to me. what is your name?
caller: i called it in a few days ago.
operator: ma'am, i need to get some information. you said your name. okay, what is the number that you're calling me from?
caller: oh, this is his number. i don't know.
operator: you don't know your number? okay, listen to me. i need you to check and see if he's breathing, okay?
caller: he's not breathing good at all. i'm trying to put air in his nose. i mean, he's out of it.
operator: okay, listen to me, okay? the ambulance is already on the way, and we've got some county officers on the way. are you with him now?
caller: yes, i'm here with him.
operator: okay, how old is he?
caller: oh my god, i don't know. maybe around 50. he just got out of the hospital like two weeks ago.
operator: ma'am, can you take the phone away from your ear a little bit? you keep pressing buttons, and i can't hear you. can you hear me now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, we need to see if he's breathing. if not, we need to start cpr, okay? can you see his chest moving?
caller: i can see his chest going in and out, barely.
operator: okay, place your hand on his forehead, your other hand under his neck, and tilt his head back. put your ear next to his mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: yes, but it's not good. i can't get a pulse.
operator: you can't get a pulse? it's very faint?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, look at him very closely and tell me exactly what you see and hear him doing.
caller: let me turn this radio down. oh my god, what has he done? i was in another room asleep.
operator: okay, we're going to do chest compressions. place the heel of your hand on the breastbone in the center of the chest, right between the nipples. put your other hand on top of that hand. pump the chest hard and fast, at least twice per second, and two inches deep. let the chest come all the way up between pumps. we’re going to keep doing this until help can take over. count out loud so i can hear you.
caller: okay.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten...
operator: you're doing great. keep counting out loud.
caller: eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty...
operator: you're doing a good job. keep going until help gets there.
caller: twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty...
operator: keep going. you're helping him.
caller: thirty-one, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-five, thirty-six, thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty...
operator: is he breathing?
caller: his chest is barely moving.
operator: keep doing the compressions. you're doing a great job.
caller: forty-one, forty-two, forty-three, forty-four, forty-five, forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty...
operator: help should be there any minute. keep going.
caller: fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three, fifty-four, fifty-five, fifty-six, fifty-seven, fifty-eight, fifty-nine, sixty...
operator: there’s an officer on scene. is the door unlocked?
caller: no.
caller: yes, it's unlocked. they can get in.
operator: okay. keep doing the compressions until they get right with you.
caller: seventy-one, seventy-two, seventy-three, seventy-four, seventy-five...
operator: you're doing a great job. keep going.
operator: ma'am, they're with you now. thank you for your help.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i got a man stabbed.
operator: you're in what city, sir?
caller: elkona.
operator: okay, how was he stabbed?
caller: i got a jeep cherokee going out hider avenue right now. he's fixing to make a left on lockwood, and he's going to be heading cordon.
caller: i got two people severely stabbed in the neck, one possible fatality.
caller: please let them know i'm wearing a red t-shirt with shorts. i am signal zero with a firearm.
operator: okay. who stabbed him, sir?
caller: i don't know. he's just out in the yellow. the jeep just turned left from lockwood.
operator: what color is the jeep cherokee?
caller: it's a champagne color.
operator: and that's the suspect, right?
caller: yes, that's the suspect.
operator: are you a law enforcement officer?
caller: no, i'm a neighbor.
operator: but you're armed?
caller: yes, i am signal zero.
operator: okay. are you with the victims now?
caller: he's saying his wife is inside stabbed.
operator: you said they're both stabbed in the neck?
caller: yes, both are stabbed in the neck.
operator: where are you at now? are you with the victims?
caller: i think so, yeah. what's the address here?
operator: okay, what's the address where the victims are at?
caller: i don't know the address, but i have two people stabbed really bad.
operator: sir, what's the address where the victims are at?
caller: i'm not sure of the exact address. the jeep cherokee turned left from lockwood.
operator: i've got help on the way. can you get a cloth and have them apply it to the wounds to stop the bleeding?
caller: yeah, i'm telling them to hold the cloth on there tight.
operator: have them sit or lay down. you said the jeep was heading toward lockwood?
caller: yes, and there's blood everywhere. his wife is missing.
operator: okay, one victim is missing. are you armed with a gun right now?
caller: yes, but my weapon is secure.
operator: all right, we need to focus on helping the victims. you said it might be a domestic incident?
caller: it sounds like the son came over and stabbed them. she's hiding in the woods.
operator: do you know the son's name?
caller: no, i don't know his name. we're deep in the woods now. she's covered in blood.
operator: can you get a cloth on the wounds to help stop the bleeding?
caller: we're doing our best with first aid. she's in really bad shape.
operator: okay, keep pressure on the wounds. do you see the deputies?
caller: yes, i see them now.
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name is [name]. he's going to her daughter's house to kill her.
operator: what's the address that he's headed to?
caller: in daytona. he's headed to kill his sister.
operator: okay, we'll notify daytona. sir, are you still there?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i got a report of a shooting.
operator: okay, where?
caller: lehigh hanson permanente, 24001 stevens creek boulevard.
operator: okay, and where are you on the premises?
caller: i'm in a control room.
operator: okay, but where's the patient?
caller: there are multiple shooting victims in the quarry. it just happened.
operator: multiple victims? where exactly in the quarry?
caller: the quarry's in the back of the plant facility. the sheriffs will need to go all the way to the back behind the cement plant.
operator: do we know how many victims?
caller: no, i don't.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i'm calling from the plant phone. the number's generated by the computer system.
operator: can you confirm the number?
caller: it's a company phone, but i'm in the control room.
operator: okay. tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i got a call from a guy just screaming on the phone. there are people shot in the quarry.
operator: okay, and nobody's answering you on the radio?
caller: no one's answering. we're trying another phone line right now.
operator: so you're not with the patients, correct?
caller: no. we're trying to call the phones up there and other numbers.
scenario:traffic
operator: since you don't have much information, can you find out how many victims there are? we're sending fire and ambulance.
caller: okay.
operator: when you find out, can you please call us back?
caller: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we need help. we need the police here.
operator: okay, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: steven creek boulevard at the cement plant and the quarry. somebody's shooting everybody.
operator: how many people?
caller: a lot, around six people shot. please, we need help.
operator: okay, let me get everyone started. hold on one second.
caller: please, we need help.
operator: okay, everybody's on the way. hold on one second for me, okay?
caller: please help, people are going to die.
operator: okay, hold on so i can get everyone started. they're on the way, but stay on the phone.
caller: thank you.
operator: who's doing the shooting? do you know who it is?
caller: it's an african american guy.
operator: do you know who it is?
caller: he used to work here. i think it's sharif elman.
operator: do you know if he left?
caller: he drove off in a brown cougar, like a 96 or 95 model.
operator: do you know which way he went from the quarry?
caller: the only way out is through the gate. i don't know which way he turned.
operator: do you know how many people are hurt?
caller: i think around five or six people.
operator: stay on the line with me. we already have help started, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: are you shot sir?
caller: no.
operator: can you tell me the phone number you're calling from?
caller: it's...
operator: can you go check on the injured and come back?
caller: okay, i'll be right back.
operator: can you see any of the people who are hurt?
caller: i saw about three or four.
operator: can you tell me exactly what happened?
caller: a guy came late to work, got a cup of coffee, then came back with a rifle and a handgun and started shooting.
operator: how many shots did you hear?
caller: about 20 to 30 shots.
operator: we need to try to help those who are injured. do you have clean cloths or towels?
caller: yes, i have some.
operator: get them and come right back.
caller: okay, i've got them.
operator: press the clean cloth firmly on the wounds. do not lift it up to look. can you do that?
caller: yes, i'm doing it. there are about five people.
operator: focus on the person next to you. are they severely injured?
caller: yes, they're bleeding badly.
operator: just press down firmly and don't lift the cloth. help is on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: stay with me. where exactly are you in the facility?
caller: in the office area up in the quarry.
operator: can you describe other people there?
caller: there's blood everywhere, and some people are dying.
operator: i understand. we're doing everything we can to get help there fast.
caller: one guy came in and said someone has already died.
operator: sheriff's office, 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: i was driving to work, and i saw a lady lying on the ground with a man leaning over her.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm in the parking lot of hp.
operator: hp call? let me look. are you afraid for the woman's safety?
caller: yes, i'm safe, but my car got shot. the man saw my license plate.
operator: did you see what the man looked like?
caller: he was kind of fat, about 250 to 300 pounds, looked hispanic.
operator: what's the address there?
caller: 10955 north tantow avenue. it's inside the hp parking lot.
operator: was the lady conscious?
caller: i don't think so. she wasn't resisting.
operator: was the man trying to take something from her?
caller: i think so, maybe her purse.
operator: what's your name and phone number?
caller: [user gives name and phone number]
operator: stay inside, contact security, and lock the doors. help is on the way.
caller: yes, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: mrs. plurton, 860 miller avenue.
caller: i believe there's a robbery in progress, shots fired.
caller: they're requesting as many units as possible.
caller: pleasant hills, units available, pending it.
operator: can you head that way as well?
operator: i'll repeat the location. it's going to be 860 miller avenue.
caller: a complainant stated a neighbor was being held at gunpoint.
caller: suspect was last seen running towards bull street.
caller: i don't have a description at this time.
caller: 534, we moved in.
caller: myself and 84, clear that transport.
caller: sheriff's advising to get a warrant.
caller: copy 22, 6.5.
caller: 2512, run reduction e1p3.
caller: 2255.
caller: yes, code 2255 jefferson.
caller: pleasant hills units, use caution.
caller: there's an update here requesting a medic for an officer possibly down.
caller: 2154. sorry, 2160 had to declare.
caller: downey 2534.
caller: there's a request for help on the radio.
caller: sir, it's 22-506. i'm talking to myself, a 34-32 will be en route.
caller: another unit, it's 51-8-37.
caller: left turn on to st. clair.
caller: can you confirm the location again?
caller: show me en route.
caller: 22 to finish.
caller: e-mail, one-one-five-five to three.
caller: e-mail, one-one-five-five-two-three.
caller: mr. walton with the police requested by one-month-law.
operator: can you repeat?
caller: 2259.
caller: let's switch over to my county south for our response.
caller: be advised they are out of 102.
caller: i'm going to provide the update in bar.
caller: 2415, you're on scene.
caller: 2300, 420, 420, 200.
caller: all units not operating, clear the area, revert to your backup channel.
caller: i'm going to close the channel.
caller: revert to your backup channel, 2300.
caller: 34 from 30, confirm direction one more time, please.
caller: round 837, same clock.
caller: 40 cut out.
caller: shots fired on the mountain.
caller: dead end on miller.
caller: pleasant hills units, when you come in, give me two more units in the back, we got more.
caller: confirmed, left onto miller off of st. clair, right?
caller: yes, if you're coming from st. clair avenue.
caller: left on st. clair, all the way to 860 miller.
caller: it'll be on your left, you'll see all the cars.
caller: capitalization 8,000, mileage 115524, 115-5-2-2.
caller: okay. 24?
caller: 2304.
caller: 90.
caller: it can be 597 en route.
caller: 597 en route.
caller: 1822, 1822, hill hall road in jefferson.
caller: next to coy county.
caller: no. 507-409.
caller: 507.
caller: we're at miller and farnsworth now.
caller: which house is it? we're here.
caller: clearing the house now, 860 miller avenue.
caller: got it.
caller: thank you, chairman.
caller: clarendon is tied up.
caller: i'd like to set up at least a six-block perimeter around this house until we get it cleared.
caller: then we can possibly contain it.
caller: look on a map and set up a perimeter around this neighborhood, a six-block radius.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please, help.
operator: hello? yes, what's your emergency?
caller: we've just been robbed.
operator: where are you?
caller: 220 south sea street.
operator: 220 south sea. okay, we have officers headed your way. are you safe right now?
caller: i'm in my bedroom.
operator: you're in your bedroom, okay. is anyone else there with you?
caller: yes, my sister. my mom and stepdad went to the pawn shop, and they stole the ipad and the ps3.
operator: are you all in the bedroom by yourselves?
caller: yes.
operator: stay right there, okay?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: did you see how many people came in?
caller: like four or five.
operator: can you hear anyone else in the house?
caller: no, i think they went to my mom's bedroom.
operator: okay, we're chasing some of them right now. so you stay right where you are and stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: yes, sir. should i go into the closet?
operator: if that'll make you feel safer, you can do that, okay?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: alright, stay in the closet if you feel safer. officers are out there.
caller: yes, sir. i have my little sister with me. we're both hiding.
operator: okay. the officers will be entering the house. if you hear something, it'll probably be them. stay where you are until they find you.
caller: i can hear them.
operator: alright. just stay on the line with me. they'll be coming through the house slowly.
caller: yes, sir.
operator: if you hear them open the door, say 'it's us,' okay?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: you're doing great.
caller: they're here.
operator: okay, don't open the door until they tell you to.
caller: they told us to open the door. it's the police.
operator: alright, you're safe now. good job.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my mom had passed out.
operator: you're on spruce?
caller: yes, my mom.
operator: where's mr. turner at?
caller: right here.
operator: let me speak to him.
caller: she's not going to talk.
operator: okay, i'm going to send the police to your house and find out what's going on.
caller: 1950 spruce, apartment 3.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. there's a house on fire on southeast 27th street.
operator: southeast 27th street?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you give me a more specific location on southeast 27th street?
caller: um, i don't know.
operator: okay, what's your address?
caller: i don't know the address here, but it's off lakewood avenue.
operator: okay, please hold while i transfer you to the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: there's a fire on southeast 27th street.
caller: yes, ma'am. i don't know if anybody is inside.
operator: can you give me a better address with a cross street?
caller: it's off lakewood avenue.
operator: do you know if there's anybody in the house?
caller: i don't know. i was driving by and i just saw it on fire. there are three or four cars in the driveway. the whole front porch is engulfed.
operator: what's your name and phone number?
caller: hey, i don't know if anyone is in the house. i was just driving by and saw it.
operator: okay, is the fire just on the front porch or spreading to the rest of the house?
caller: it's starting to burn the whole roof now. it's getting really intense.
operator: alright, help is on the way. are you still there?
caller: yes, there are some cars in the front yard. i don't see anyone outside or any neighbors around.
operator: can you see anyone running out of the house?
caller: there are some people coming out now.
operator: can you see if anyone else is still in the house?
caller: i just saw one person come out; he said there are kids inside.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me. are there children inside the house?
caller: yes, but he ran off somewhere. the house is almost half engulfed.
operator: did the person who ran out say how many kids are inside?
caller: he mentioned a couple of kids.
operator: please ask him if there are any more children or people inside.
caller: he just said there’s only one person inside now. i don't know if it's a child.
operator: is the fire department there yet?
caller: yes, they just arrived. i still see flames catching on the trees and everything.
operator: okay, they should be handling it now. thank you for calling. stay safe.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, my mama fell down.
operator: okay, your mama fell down?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, where are you at?
caller: um, my house.
operator: do you know the address of your house?
caller: uh.
operator: can you ask your mommy what the address is?
caller: yeah.
operator: hello? is your mom, can your mommy talk?
caller: no, she can't talk now. she's up down.
operator: is she laying down on the ground?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, do you know what your house looks like?
caller: what?
operator: what color is your house?
caller: um, white.
operator: white? okay, what color is your driveway?
caller: hang on, kevin, just a second. it's white.
operator: white cars in front of your house?
caller: i can't do such as a... white car. because i'm trying to get dresses from a little bit of a girl. i only have one white car, and daddy has a big black car.
operator: big black car? okay. do you have any dogs or anything in your yard?
caller: we have a big giant one. a big car.
operator: okay. how old are you?
caller: three.
operator: three? okay. you're going to have to help me so we can get the ambulance there to help your mommy, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you go to the door and turn on the porch light so the ambulance can find the house?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: yeah.
operator: stay on the phone with me. don't put the phone down, okay? what is your name?
caller: um, natalie.
operator: oh, okay. do you have a baby brother?
caller: yes.
operator: did you turn on the porch light for me?
caller: yep, okay.
operator: okay, i'll let you know when to open up the front door, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can your mommy talk?
caller: no, she's not awake.
operator: okay, we'll have to watch for the ambulance, and you'll have to help me wave them in so they can come help mommy, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you hear the ambulance?
caller: no.
operator: okay, you'll have to help me listen for the ambulance. what's your mommy's name?
caller: melinda.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: um, i don't remember.
operator: that's okay. we're going to help her. can you go open the front door for me so we can listen for the ambulance?
caller: okay.
operator: are you by the door so i can hear the ambulance?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, listen for the sirens with me, okay?
operator: you're a very smart little girl for calling me so we can get your mommy help. what's your last name?
caller: i don't feel good. mommy doesn't feel good.
operator: that's right, and you're a very smart little girl for calling me so we can get her help. can you wave at the ambulance when you see them?
caller: yes.
operator: are you waving at them?
caller: yes, there's a small child at the door.
operator: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i think somebody's breaking into my house, please.
operator: okay, stay on the line. why do you think someone's trying to break into your house?
caller: i'm upstairs, and i can hear them breaking stuff down there.
operator: what's been broken?
caller: it sounds like glass, maybe a window?
operator: you heard some glass being broken?
caller: i did.
operator: how long ago was that?
caller: a minute, maybe 30 seconds.
operator: okay. just stay on the phone. stay calm. are you the only one in the house?
caller: i am.
operator: no children or other adults?
caller: no.
operator: you're in the upstairs part of the house?
caller: yes, in the office under a desk.
operator: which area of the house did you hear the glass breaking?
caller: the kitchen. please hurry.
operator: do you have any weapons in the house that anyone could use?
caller: no.
operator: where is the kitchen in relation to the rest of the house?
caller: the back side of the house, by the pool.
operator: do you have any dogs in the backyard?
caller: no, nothing in the backyard.
operator: okay, i have several officers coming that way. stay calm; you're doing great. do you have any idea who could be trying to get into your house?
caller: no.
operator: do you hear anything else right now?
caller: i don't.
operator: i don't want you to move, but let me know if you hear anything else we need to know about.
caller: i hear something. oh my god, they're coming up the stairs.
operator: just stay where you're at. do you hear someone coming up the stairs?
caller: yes, with flashlights.
operator: stay where you're at. don't make a sound. do you see them?
caller: they’re right in front of me!
operator: stay still, don't move. do not say a word.
caller: what do i do?
operator: stay silent. help is right there. just stay put.
caller: okay.
operator: can you still hear them in your house? are there more than one voice?
caller: there are at least two.
operator: are they still in the house?
caller: they're leaving the room. i think they heard something outside.
operator: okay, stay where you're at. i'm going to stay on the phone with you until officers get there.
caller: they're outside the room.
operator: stay silent. the officers are clearing the house. they will let you know when it’s safe to come out.
caller: they're yelling something.
operator: are you with the officers now?
caller: yes, they just got here.
operator: okay, go ahead and talk to them. you did excellent.
caller: thank you.
operator: take a deep breath and breathe. you're safe now. the officers are there with you.
caller: okay.
operator: you did a wonderful job. is there anything else you need to tell the officers?
caller: no, they're checking the house.
operator: okay, take a moment. you did great. if you need anything else, let the officers know.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, sir.
operator: ma'am, this is arsbury county.
caller: we just had a robbery. they took a baby.
operator: all right, hold on for the sheriff's office, ma'am.
operator: all right, hold on, okay.
operator: did they leave the residence?
caller: yes, ma'am, they left the residence.
caller: they came in the house and told all of us to lay on the floor.
operator: all right, hold on.
operator: all right, hold on, ma'am.
caller: and they took the baby.
caller: hello, ma'am. excuse me.
caller: hello?
operator: okay, ma'am. tell me what happened.
operator: tell me what happened, ma'am?
caller: they came into the house and told us to lay on the floor.
operator: okay, who came in? how many?
caller: four of them.
operator: were they male or female? black or white?
caller: they were all black.
operator: you said four of them, were they males or females?
caller: males.
operator: okay, did they have any weapons?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: how many?
caller: ma'am, ma'am, excuse me, ma'am.
operator: ma'am, you need to slow down. did they have any guns?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, hold on.
operator: okay, what did they leave in?
caller: ma'am.
operator: what did they leave in?
caller: i can't talk to multiple people at once.
operator: ma'am, i need you to stay on the line and not switch the phone from person to person.
caller: okay, i'm here.
operator: all right. what did they leave in?
caller: they were driving a green explorer.
caller: i didn't get the tag number, but there was also a little red car.
operator: a green explorer and a red what?
caller: a little red car. i don't know the make or model.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is the policeway. the emergency will borrow?
operator: what's the address in queens?
caller: go on 17.7.7.
operator: i don't understand what you're saying there. what is it? what's your address?
caller: 1.147-3.
operator: 121-47?
caller: yes, we're going out of the bed.
operator: what are your questions, ma'am?
caller: it says, um, time is going to live on.
operator: and you're at 121st avenue?
caller: hello?
caller: woo!
operator: are you near 121st avenue, ma'am?
caller: hello. good morning. 604-1-770. we're in queens.
operator: i have a caller on the line. she said someone is shot. hello?
operator: i don't think she's going to be able to answer you.
caller: i heard the shots myself. i don't know. did you get it?
operator: and there's 121-47 garrison?
caller: i think it's gregson.
operator: grayson?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, thank you.
caller: what about it? where are you in?
operator: what's the address?
caller: 121.47 green street.
operator: all right, what street?
caller: great.
operator: oh, my god. hold on. hold on. hold on. go ahead.
caller: hold on. 121.
operator: okay, who is shot?
caller: my mother and my father. my mother and father are dead.
operator: okay, hold on. don't hang up, okay?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, ma'am. okay, hello, ma'am. who, i'm sorry, sir. who shot you? where's the person?
caller: i don't know. i just don't know.
operator: you don't have any description?
caller: no. what is the dog doing?
operator: where were you shot?
caller: in my shoulders.
operator: okay. are you inside or outside?
caller: i'm outside.
operator: and you said your parents were also shot?
caller: yes.
operator: oh my gosh. where are they?
caller: in the room.
operator: hold on one second, don't hang up, okay? we're going to send assistance, all right?
operator: is it a private house or apartment building?
caller: a private house.
operator: all right, what's your phone number?
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, sir?
caller: i'm here.
operator: okay. hold on for me.
operator: ems is on the way. we have an officer on the line. he said he was shot in the shoulder.
caller: say that again?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, sir. is that the police there?
caller: let me drop you out to the back.
operator: okay. can you send the police? i've got to check.
caller: okay.
operator: hello, sir.
caller: hello.
operator: hello, sir. you don't know what he looks like?
operator: what does he look like?
caller: he's around 5'4".
caller: oh, my shoulder.
operator: hello, sir?
caller: he let the door down. they got shot.
caller: oh, mama!
operator: hello, sir. is that the police you're talking to?
operator: i'll send an arrest team. there's multiple people shot at that location. i'm going to send that, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: stay with me, sir. all right?
caller: i'm...
caller: oh, i'm sorry. what's the name?
operator: grayson?
caller: i believe that's it.
operator: i'm trying to get help to you, okay? stay with us, all right?
caller: oh, i'm on the ground. what should i do?
operator: where is the person? have they left already? are you sure? try not to move, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: okay, we're sending help now. stay with me.
caller: all right, no.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have been kidnapped, and we are being followed.
caller: he's going to kill me if they keep following him.
operator: okay, and what's your name, ma'am?
caller: okay.
operator: are you in the car with him?
caller: he has me in the back.
operator: he has a guy, and he's got a nine-millimeter.
operator: do you have any other weapons in there?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know what kind of weapons he has?
caller: i think he has two others. he's got a rifle.
operator: okay, and what else?
caller: he says that he's taking me home. he said if they try to stop him before then, i'm going to get hurt.
operator: are you able to put him on the phone?
caller: can i talk to him for a second?
operator: ma'am?
caller: get them off my ass.
caller: hey.
caller: they can follow me at a distance. i will drive around 80 or 90, safely. she is going home.
operator: sir, why don't you just pull over so we can end this peacefully?
caller: that's not going to happen. maybe you didn't hear me. back them up or i start opening fire.
operator: sir, why are you running?
caller: you're risking this woman's life. we're heading south. you've got three officers ganging up on me right now, and i have enough ammunition to kill her and myself.
caller: get out of my ass now! they are more than welcome to follow me at a distance. if they continue to do this, people are going to get hurt.
operator: if the officer following me does not break off pursuit, then people will be hurt.
operator: where are you located?
caller: i don't even know what officer's following you.
operator: can you let me know where you are so i can let the officer know?
caller: we're going south on i-95. if they continue to follow me, i will fire a warning shot. the third shot will not be a warning.
operator: do you have a weapon on you?
caller: you guys don't seem to want to believe me.
operator: i'm just asking you a question. what kind of gun do you have?
caller: i am going to take this young lady back to her home. you will not interfere. is that understood?
operator: so you're going where?
caller: they are welcome to follow me at a distance, but i'm not telling you where. you understand?
operator: i don't really understand the situation that's going on.
caller: you don't need to. either the police stay off of my ass and they stay well back, or i'm going to hurt people.
operator: okay, good deal.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my girlfriend left last night, and she hasn't made it back to the hotel.
operator: okay, where are you at?
caller: the stevens inn.
operator: what room?
caller: 402.
operator: what is your name?
caller: it's robert early.
operator: how do you spell your last name?
caller: b-a-r-l-e-y.
operator: and your phone number is 817-308-7251?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: where do you live, robert?
caller: i'm from texas.
operator: and what is her name?
caller: emily lambert.
operator: can you describe what she was wearing?
caller: she was wearing a white and black dress with black high heels. they had little silver balls on the bottom of the heels.
operator: do you know if she has her phone and id with her?
caller: her id and phone are in the room on the charger. she took my phone with her.
caller: i've driven up and down the street to see if she was walking. i haven't seen her, and i've called her parents and her ex-husband. nobody's heard from her.
operator: okay, let me go ahead and have an officer come see you, alright?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 1500 east second street, suite 300.
operator: 1500 east second street, suite 300. what's the problem there?
caller: we believe there is a shooter. we've heard at least two shots.
operator: okay, what's the name of the business?
caller: urology nevada.
operator: do you know if anybody's been hurt?
caller: we don't know. we are locked in the bathroom right outside the elevator.
operator: have you heard anything other than the shots?
caller: no, we only heard two shots. two suspected shots.
operator: okay, and you're in the bathroom on the third floor, by the elevators?
caller: yes, that's right.
operator: and you haven't seen anyone, right?
caller: i personally have not seen anybody with a gun, no.
operator: how many people are with you in the bathroom?
caller: there are ten people in the bathroom i am in. there are probably about ten others in the men's room across the hall.
operator: okay, and someone there saw the shooter?
caller: yes, there are two people here who saw the person with the gun.
operator: can you ask them for a description? is the shooter white, black, hispanic, asian?
caller: he's a white guy, middle-aged, in his 40s, tall, around 6 feet, about 200 pounds.
operator: do you know what he was wearing or what kind of gun he had?
caller: he had a long black gun, a pump shotgun with no stock, and a black vest over a flannel shirt.
operator: did he say anything?
caller: yes, he said, 'you guys better get out of here,' then went towards the back.
operator: did he appear to be intoxicated?
caller: no, he seemed angry. he said something about ruining his life. we don't know him.
operator: okay, and nobody in the bathroom is injured, correct?
caller: correct, nobody here is injured.
operator: alright, i want you to stay on the phone with me, stay quiet, and stay where you are. help is on the way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we've had a shooting at 1500 east second street, suite 300.
operator: is anyone injured?
caller: one of the doctors might have been shot. i'm hiding so i don't know.
operator: where are you hiding?
caller: under my desk.
operator: stay quiet and stay on the phone with me. where is the doctor?
caller: i don’t know, maybe in the back of the office.
operator: do you know how many shots were fired?
caller: i heard four shots in total.
operator: alright, i need you to stay as safe as possible. do you have a window in your office?
caller: yes, but i'm on the third floor.
operator: just stay where you are. i've got help on the way. do you hear anything now?
caller: it's quiet now.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me and let me know if anything changes.
caller: okay, will do.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we've got a gunman at 1500 east second street. i'm locked in a room.
operator: what room number are you in and what floor are you on?
caller: i’m on the third floor, exam room 18, suite 302.
operator: stay where you are and stay away from windows and doors. what’s your name?
caller: dr. zell.
operator: okay, dr. zell. i've got your information. stay where you are and keep the door secured.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 1500 east second street, urology nevada.
operator: what's happening?
caller: i hear gunshots outside my office.
operator: is anyone injured?
caller: i don't know, i'm hiding under my desk.
operator: stay calm and stay on the phone with me. is your office door locked?
caller: yes, it's locked.
operator: good. do you see or hear anyone outside the door?
caller: i heard someone outside just now.
operator: stay quiet and stay calm. help is on the way. do you hear more shots?
caller: no, it’s quiet now.
operator: okay, hold on. do not open the door for anyone except the police. stay on the line with me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: what's the address of your emergency?
caller: ma'am.
operator: ma'am, i need you to take a deep breath and give me that address again.
caller: okay.
caller: i'm sorry, no.
caller: okay.
caller: i don't want my hands.
caller: honey.
operator: honey, listen, listen to me. take a breath. i got 2133 west and what?
caller: 11.1.1.7.
operator: one more time?
caller: i'm sorry. i'm so sorry.
operator: what is it?
caller: 1175.
operator: 1175 north?
caller: no, south.
operator: south. in what city?
caller: in syracuse.
operator: okay. what's going on there?
caller: we just came into my sister's house, and she's on the floor.
caller: there's a girl's in there.
caller: she's, okay, she's on the floor. the girl's in there.
operator: okay, ma'am, listen to me. listen to me. i need you to take a breath, and we're going to help her, okay? how old is your sister?
caller: she's 32.
operator: 32? okay, listen to me. is she awake?
caller: no.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: what?
operator: ma'am, is she breathing?
caller: no.
caller: i'm giving her a bond to the gutty who went into the room.
caller: okay, there's another man there.
operator: hi, can you tell me what's going on, please?
caller: yeah, we went to check on her sister. my brother and her had just separated. he moved out today. we went to check on her. her door was locked. no lights on. i opened up the bedroom door. i, jimmy, pushed open the lock, to unlock the bedroom door. she's on the floor. there's a spent bullet casing next to her. three two kids are in the bed. and it looks like there's a gunshot wound on one of the kids on the side.
operator: okay. so we have three patients total?
caller: three, yeah.
operator: are any of them breathing?
caller: no, they're all dead. they've been dead for a while. they're blue and cold.
operator: okay. listen, sir. sir?
caller: in fact, actually, the other one has a gunshot wound in her as well.
operator: sir, i need you to listen to me very carefully. can you see the gun?
caller: no, i do not see the gun.
operator: okay, i do not want you to try to find the gun. i need you to back out of the room.
caller: i'm out now.
operator: perfect. i do not want you to touch anything else. nothing else.
caller: i pressed the door. i checked her pulse and that was it.
operator: you're sure that they are all deceased?
caller: yes, i checked the pulses. they're just...
caller: they told me to get out.
operator: she has got to stay away from them, okay? please tell her to stay away from them.
caller: i know she wants to go in, but she has to stay out of the room. come on, mom. al. come on.
operator: okay, who is all in the house with you? you and your, is that your wife?
caller: no, that was my mom.
operator: okay, i need them all to stay out of that room.
caller: they're out.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: my name's justin johnson.
operator: justin johnson, what's your phone number?
operator: listen, justin, i actually want you to get all of the people out of that house.
caller: they are. we're on the porch.
operator: so there's nobody else in the house but the three patients, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: all right, justin, i want you to stay there. officers should be arriving any minute. do not go back inside the house, okay?
caller: heather, heather, stay there.
caller: okay, get heather in the truck.
caller: okay, we'll be there.
operator: okay, justin, thank you very much.
caller: thank you.
operator: all right, bye-bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance.
operator: where are you located?
caller: 193 mockingbird lane.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: i have a nine-week-old infant, and he just stopped breathing.
operator: stay on the line, okay. a nine-week-old infant, not breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, your name?
caller: melanie campbell.
operator: phone number?
caller: 508-420-6215.
operator: stay on the line for the ambulance, i'm sending them right now.
caller: thank you.
operator: have you tried tapping the baby and gently shouting to wake him?
caller: yes, he's a little whiny, but he's bright blue in the face.
operator: is he choking on anything?
caller: yeah, he threw up and was choking, and now he's not breathing.
operator: turn the baby face down so he lies on your forearm, with his bottom at your elbow.
caller: okay.
operator: support the baby's jaw with your hand, making sure not to block the baby's mouth.
caller: alright.
operator: tilt the baby so the head is down slightly. use the heel of your free hand to give five back blows between the shoulder blades.
caller: okay, did that. nothing came out.
operator: is the baby conscious and breathing?
caller: he’s trying to breathe, but you can tell he's not getting enough air.
operator: bring the baby down a little bit further and give him a couple more back blows between the shoulder blades, making sure not to block the mouth.
caller: he's breathing a little bit, but still blue.
operator: okay, keep monitoring him. is he crying?
caller: yes, that's him crying in the background.
operator: that's good. it means he's getting air. stay with him, and i'm staying on the line.
caller: alright.
operator: is his color starting to come back?
caller: he's still a bit red and blue around his eyes and forehead.
operator: red is okay, it means blood flow is returning. just keep monitoring him. the sound of him crying is good.
caller: alright.
operator: can you have someone go outside and open the door for the emts?
caller: the emts are here now.
operator: great. they'll take over. you're doing a great job.
caller: thank you. goodbye.
operator: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, it's an emergency.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: my husband has been shot. can you call an ambulance? it's been half an hour.
operator: where is he? where did this happen?
caller: they're at the mall.
operator: help is on the way, ma'am. can you speak with the officers when they arrive?
caller: yes, the police are here. shots fired on green four at the macy's.
operator: all units in the area, shots fired, green four at the mall. we need an ambulance. someone's been shot in the head.
caller: yes, one of my units is out with them right now.
operator: do you still hear shots? how long ago did you hear them?
caller: it was just like a minute ago.
operator: do you have any witnesses or any additional information?
caller: i'm not sure, there's a lot of yelling.
operator: i understand. try to get me some more information if you can.
caller: okay, i will.
operator: is it confirmed that someone was shot in the head?
caller: yes, i was told it was one to the head. it's severe head trauma.
operator: alright, stay on the line if you can. help is on the way.
caller: a vehicle has been stolen. ems and police are here. i'll call you back if needed.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 1675 airport road. i've been shot.
operator: 1675 airport road?
caller: kennesaw, georgia.
operator: okay. who shot you, sir?
caller: i don't know. there was a gunman. he's got a shotgun. i've been shot.
caller: i've been shot.
operator: okay. stay on the line with me. stay on the line.
caller: please tell my wife i love her.
operator: okay. what's your name?
caller: principal fier's parkman. i'm losing energy. it's really fast.
operator: okay. stay on the line with me.
operator: is this a business that you're in?
caller: hello? fedex.
operator: stay on the phone with me, okay? don't hang up.
caller: i've been shot. i've been shot.
operator: okay, listen. can i speak to someone else?
caller: hello?
caller: i don't know, unknown gunman.
operator: yeah, what is he wearing, sir?
caller: i got out of there. carlson was shot. my security, i heard.
operator: put more pressure.
operator: where have you been shot, sir?
operator: where have you been shot, sir?
caller: in the lower side of my abdomen above my waist.
caller: please, sorry, please, god, hurry. i do not want to die.
operator: yes, sir. they're on their way to you. just stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: all right.
caller: what do you tell him?
caller: can you press her? yes, you are. i got you.
caller: don't help me.
operator: what?
caller: he needs to come to the second driveway at the main cargo.
scenario:medical
operator: you're all right?
caller: he's so pale. sorry. he's so pale.
caller: in the abdomen, in the abdomen.
operator: you still there with me?
caller: okay. hold on now.
caller: are you still there?
operator: there's an officer pulling up, okay?
caller: okay. i'm going to be all right.
operator: they're coming. hello?
caller: yeah.
operator: do you know?
operator: there's an officer pulling up. can you go outside?
caller: ma'am, i'm on the line with you on 999. i'm trying to be next to him though. he's very pale.
operator: okay. they're on their way. like i said, one of them's outside already. can one of y'all go?
caller: there is. oh, hey. he doesn't know who it is.
caller: hey, ma'am.
caller: i know. i know it's safe.
caller: hello.
operator: is he black or white?
caller: your wife? your wife?
operator: do you remember what, ma'am?
operator: do you know what he's wearing?
caller: all right. karen?
caller: four parts here. call my guy.
caller: no.
caller: hello.
caller: hello.
caller: you can make $511.1.5.10. you're not. you're going to stop.
caller: hello.
caller: hello, you there. hello.
caller: you there.
caller: who is called a shirt?
caller: who's my second?
caller: stop! we got a letter here.
caller: hello, call.
caller: you there.
caller: wait, sir. hello.
caller: and my name is small and then a grandelier. the ball is a bandolier. the old is at least 30-plus ground. that's what the guy's saying. and he had a lot.
caller: and he had a knife, sir.
caller: and my night i'm in his tongue that has for the least seven.
caller: hello.
caller: what's the other guy?
caller: i know what's the dealing me.
caller: i call me to be the only me.
caller: i call me to be a copy. i'm going to go ahead.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm the guy that's in pretty big trouble right now.
operator: you're in pretty big trouble? what's your name?
caller: james.
operator: james, what are you doing right now?
caller: shooting.
operator: okay. you need to put the gun down for me, okay?
operator: james, we don't need anybody else getting hurt, including yourself. okay? can you put the gun down for me?
caller: no, you need to tell those police officers to leave.
operator: james, i'm sorry, but they're not going to leave now. okay?
caller: just say, get out of my place. they can stay downstairs all they want.
operator: okay. what i need you to do is put that gun down. don't fire any more shots. you understand me, james?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, can you do that for me?
caller: no, i can't.
operator: what's going on with you tonight?
caller: a lot.
operator: okay, well we don't need anybody getting hurt unnecessarily, okay?
caller: i've already hurt a police officer.
operator: okay, we'll deal with that, okay?
caller: no.
operator: well, you don't want to hurt any other police officers or anybody else in that apartment complex, okay?
caller: i don't know where they're at.
operator: who is that? the police officers?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, that's why you need to put that gun down so nobody else gets hurt out there, okay? we can deal with this, okay? please put the gun down for us, all right? can you do that?
operator: you could hurt a lot of innocent people out there, james. you don't want to do that. can you put the gun down for me?
caller: i can't.
operator: well, you're going to need to do that, james, okay? you need to quit firing shots out there. you're going to hurt somebody unnecessarily, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is james.
operator: hi james. can you stay on the phone and talk with me?
caller: i'll just let them know. i've only got a few left.
operator: just a few left, what, bullets?
operator: okay, why don't you just put the gun down for us, okay? what kind of gun do you have there, james?
operator: can you talk to me? tell me what's going on, okay?
caller: i don't know.
operator: what's your cell phone number, james? what number are you calling me from? can you give me that?
caller: let them know that i only got a few left.
operator: a few bullets or what? can you be more specific for me?
caller: got to go.
operator: why don't you stay on the phone with me, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: police.
operator: what seems to be the problem?
caller: my kids have been missing since 3 o'clock today, my 7-year-old and my 3-year-old.
operator: they've been missing since 3 o'clock today? i'm sorry to hear that. can you tell me how they went missing?
caller: well, they were outside playing, and i was on the porch, watching them play, and they just disappeared. i looked up and they were gone.
operator: they disappeared at 3 o'clock this afternoon?
caller: three o'clock this afternoon, and i've been walking around this apartment complex knocking on everyone's door, just waiting to see if they're going to show up, and they're not here yet.
operator: okay, what's your address?
caller: 4025 burke road, apartment 1606.
operator: apartment what?
caller: 1606.
operator: 1606?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: ferrell, f-e-r-r-e-l-l.
operator: your first name?
caller: jerilyn, j-e-r-i-l-y-n.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: 504-214-xxxx. it's an out-of-state cell phone number.
operator: you said a seven-year-old and a three-year-old, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: why did you decide to call now?
caller: well, i thought they were with a friend, and i was waiting for the friend to come home, but when i called, she wasn't there. so, i called her on her cell phone, which i got from her neighbor, and she said she had been gone since earlier this morning and hadn't seen my kids. i've been looking for them, which is why i didn't call earlier.
operator: what are their names, the seven-year-old?
caller: randy, r-a-n-d-y. last name is sylvester, s-y-l-v-e-s-t-e-r.
operator: and the three-year-old?
caller: denim, d-e-n-i-m. last name is sylvester.
operator: got it. it's two children, a seven-year-old and a three-year-old, not a twenty-seven-year-old, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, are you going to be at your apartment?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: all right, we're going to send an officer to your apartment. please stay there.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my wife fell asleep in the bathtub and i think she's dead!
operator: what's the address?
caller: it's 5250 crested owl court, morrow, ohio.
operator: okay, you need to calm down so i can understand the address. what is it again?
caller: 5250 crested owl court in hamilton township, morrow, ohio.
operator: now, what's going on?
caller: she fell asleep in the bathtub. i was downstairs, i just came up here and she was laying face down in the water.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she is 24.
operator: she's in the bathtub?
caller: yes, the water's draining right now. i tried to do everything i could.
operator: you're taking her out of the water now?
caller: yes, the water is completely drained, but she's just laying here unconscious.
operator: is she still in the bathtub?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: okay, so you drained the water out of the tub?
caller: yes.
operator: how long was she in the bathtub?
caller: she was in there for at least 15 minutes, maybe half an hour. i was out watching tv. she falls asleep in the tub all the time.
operator: and how are you related to her?
caller: i'm her husband.
operator: what's your name?
caller: ryan whitmer.
operator: could you spell your last name for me, ryan?
caller: w-i-t-m-e-r.
operator: have you tried cpr?
caller: yes, as much as i could. what little bit i know.
operator: somebody is coming. they're already on the way, ryan. is there any way you can get her out of the bathtub and onto a flat surface?
caller: i can try, but i have to set the phone down.
operator: okay, go ahead and get her out of the bathtub and onto a flat surface.
caller: okay, okay. i'm dropping the phone for a moment.
caller: she's on a flat surface now.
operator: alright, go ahead and begin cpr again. keep trying cpr and they'll be there very soon, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: are your doors unlocked?
caller: no.
operator: you need to run and unlock the doors so they can get in when they arrive, then come back to her.
caller: okay. the doors are unlocked now.
operator: okay, where are you in the house?
caller: we're upstairs.
operator: do you have more than one bathroom in the house?
caller: no, there's two, but we're in the only one with a bathtub.
operator: alright, ryan, continue with cpr for me until they arrive.
caller: okay.
caller: come on, come on. wake up!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, uh, my friend is having a seizure.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm not sure what the address is. i don't live here.
operator: okay, can you describe their condition?
caller: she was feeding her blood. she's sitting there a little bit.
operator: you think she's coming to a little bit?
caller: i think she's coming through a little bit.
operator: okay, and how old is she?
caller: uh, i think she's 20.
operator: is that her yelling in the background?
caller: no, that's not her. that's a different person.
operator: what's wrong with the other person?
caller: the same thing that's gone through, they took some kind of drug.
operator: they took some kind of pill? okay. so it's a drug overdose, possibly?
caller: i don't know. i think it's some kind of hallucinogen.
operator: okay. so you've got two people having problems?
caller: yeah, he won't stop yelling. i've been trying to get him to calm down.
operator: so you've got a male and a female?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, i can hear him. are they both conscious?
caller: yeah, i think he just knows a little bit.
operator: is she responsive?
caller: no.
operator: she's breathing, but she's non-responsive?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. i'm going to let you go because i'm going to have to get a deputy to come there too. anything else happens? you call me back, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: alright, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i just called a few minutes ago. my friend who's had another seizure.
operator: okay, the female?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. i do have an ambulance and some deputies en route to your location. is she still breathing?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, is blood still coming out of her mouth?
caller: every now and then just a little bit. just a little drop like maybe she's bitten her cheek or something?
operator: she's really hot?
caller: yeah, she's burning up.
operator: okay. i'll update the ambulance that's coming in. what about the male subject? is he still yelling?
caller: yeah, he's kind of rolling around on the floor now, yelling.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: chairfield, connecticut, 833 thompson hill road. my wife has handcuffed me. i need assistance right away.
operator: what happened?
caller: my wife has handcuffed me. she's attacking me.
operator: okay, she's attacking you?
caller: yeah, she's handcuffed me, she has a record of violence. please come and help me get out of here.
operator: sir, where is she now?
caller: i'm holding her down so i can call you. please send someone.
operator: is there any way that you can lock yourself in another room?
caller: no, she's handcuffed herself to me. please send police!
operator: okay, is she hurting you, sir? do you need an ambulance?
caller: no, i don't need an ambulance. i need police.
operator: i got that already, sir. what's her name?
caller: helen. she has a history of violence. please.
operator: is there any drinking involved?
caller: no.
operator: any drugs?
caller: no.
operator: and your name, sir?
caller: my name is robert drabba.
operator: are there any weapons in the house?
caller: i don't know, knives and such. i don't know what she grabbed before she handcuffed me.
operator: what is she doing now, sir?
caller: she's biting my arms!
operator: is there any way that you can put something between her so she can't bite you?
caller: no, i'm just trying to use every hand to keep her away from me.
operator: okay. they've been on the way since you first gave me the address. i'm just trying to keep you on the phone to make sure that everything's okay. does she have any knives or anything that she can grab?
caller: i don't know what she has.
operator: i already have the address. they've been on the way for a couple of minutes now.
caller: thank you, thank you. i'm so sorry. it just came out of nowhere and she handcuffed me.
operator: where in the house are you?
caller: in the back bedroom. first floor.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need someone to come pick me up.
operator: what's the address of your emergency?
caller: i'm actually okay, but the emergency is at 21448, north 34th drive.
operator: is that a house or an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: what's the emergency there?
caller: i'd rather not say.
operator: okay, well, if you're calling 9-9-9, it's my job to find out, so i need to know what the emergency is.
caller: i think it's a murder.
operator: what makes you think that?
caller: because i stabbed someone.
operator: okay. and where are you now?
caller: i'm at circle k on 35th avenue and deer valley.
operator: and who is it that you stabbed?
caller: hugo austin tapia.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: where did you stab him?
caller: i think i stabbed him in the chest, the neck, and the head.
operator: okay. and who is this person to you?
caller: he's hugo tapia's son.
operator: how do you know him?
caller: he lives in the house with me.
operator: so he's your roommate?
caller: he's family or a relative.
operator: is he like a cousin?
caller: he's basically kind of like a brother.
operator: okay. and what happened? were you guys fighting?
caller: honestly, i just felt like killing.
operator: have you been drinking or using any drugs?
caller: no, i have not.
operator: so you weren't arguing or anything like that?
caller: nope.
operator: okay. what's your name, sir?
caller: my name is andrew ward.
operator: are you in the front of the circle k?
caller: i'm inside the store.
operator: what are you wearing?
caller: i'm wearing a black shirt and gray shorts.
operator: do you have any weapons on you?
caller: i sure do.
operator: what do you have on you?
caller: i have a knife, a batman knife.
operator: is it like a steak knife, a butcher knife?
caller: a display knife.
operator: is it in your pocket or are you holding it?
caller: it's in my pocket.
operator: which pocket is it in?
caller: i believe my right pocket.
caller: i'm using someone else's phone and they have to leave.
operator: can you let them know that it's 9-9-9? it won't be too long.
caller: alright, i'll let them know.
caller: i'm handing the phone to him now.
caller: hello?
operator: sir, this is the phoenix police. it's really important, and i understand you have to get to class, but this is a very important situation.
caller: well, he gave you the address. you can call him.
operator: i understand, but it has to do with him and your...
caller: i don't know what to tell you. i helped out as much as i could. i was the only one on the phone.
operator: thank you. we're just trying to get there as fast as we can, but i don't want to let a suspect go. i want to keep them on the phone to make sure we get the right person.
caller: well, he gave you the address and he's covered in blood, so i think you would get over here quick.
operator: we are getting there as quickly as we can.
caller: i'll leave my phone with him, and an officer can bring it to me at the school.
operator: where do you go to school so we can make sure that happens?
caller: mmi, the motorcycle mechanic school right down the road.
operator: is there a certain room we need to go to?
caller: just the front office would be fine.
operator: absolutely. thank you for your help.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: hi andrew, i just wanted to make sure we stayed on the phone.
caller: alright.
caller: honestly, that was a kill for the u.s. marshal.
operator: oh, okay. did you work for them at all?
caller: honestly, it's classified.
operator: oh, okay. you don't have to tell me. was there anybody else at the house?
caller: no, nobody else.
operator: just let me know if you see the officers, okay?
caller: alright. do you want me to stay on the phone with you?
operator: if you can, if you don't mind. have you taken any kind of drugs today?
caller: not today.
operator: do you normally?
caller: actually, i think i'm clean.
operator: oh, that's good. what did you use to take?
caller: i'd rather not say.
operator: you don't have to answer. it's not a problem.
operator: are you hurt at all?
caller: honestly, i don't think i'm that hurt. maybe a little cut, but not bleeding much.
operator: okay. so you don't need any medical attention?
caller: there's blood everywhere.
operator: okay. just let me know if you need medical attention. am i going to the mental hospital or somewhere else?
caller: am i going to the mental hospital or somewhere else?
operator: you know what? i am not an officer, so none of that is up to me. we just want to help you.
operator: are you still inside the circle k or did you go outside?
caller: i'm still inside the circle k. i see an suv. should i walk outside?
operator: let me ask them what they want you to do, okay?
operator: do you see the officers outside?
caller: yes, i see them.
operator: go ahead and walk outside. if you want to stay on the phone, you can, or if you want to hang up, that's okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: interior to bucket.
operator: go ahead.
caller: hey, give me a little break on the roof here.
caller: we got a couple guys working inside. it’s getting tight.
operator: we're on that, we'll shut down for a minute.
caller: bucket to truck.
caller: shut it down.
caller: now, everybody out of the building.
caller: everybody out of the building.
caller: we've got to get them back here to rupture this glass a bit more.
caller: in turn to command, we're good.
caller: in terms, mail out, mail out.
caller: bucket to command, the south wall of the burning building is starting to tip in heavily.
caller: a unit should be evacuating the building.
caller: may day, may day.
caller: four firefighters trapped inside the building.
caller: police player, go ahead.
operator: 301 to some 801.
operator: go ahead, 301.
caller: copy that 70.
caller: all units on scene are 801 from 803.
caller: a firefighter is trapped inside.
caller: firefighter radio 14, what's your location?
caller: firefighter inside is okay, left side trapped.
caller: 203 to fire center.
caller: can you send me two more ambulances down here, please?
caller: delhi ambulance requesting two ambulances, two ambulances in leslie, 147 south main.
caller: who's available?
caller: requesting two ambulances, firefighters trapped inside the building.
caller: time now 0921.
operator: what is the response in there?
caller: i have the availability of three ambulances at this time.
operator: do you need me to cancel delhi?
caller: correct.
operator: leslie mason will be responding with three ambulances at 09:22.
caller: cancel delhi ambulance request.
operator: delhi you can cancel your two ambulances.
caller: lansing mason is en route with three.
operator: cancel at 09:23.
caller: red 213, continue for standby there, not an emergency, please.
operator: by now.
caller: murder is 313 to 301.
caller: senator a to command.
caller: we've got three mason ambulances, one delhi ambulance.
operator: command is trying to get the firefighters out. there are four inside that we know of.
caller: you want to stretch about 2-13 up to emergency before we get ready.
operator: command, there are two firefighters out at this time.
operator: two firefighters are out at 09:25.
caller: center to stockbridge ambulance request, mutual ambulance response in leslie.
caller: command, i say the ambulance and now to respond.
caller: loose bar and grill, 147 south main.
operator: clear the call responding, 147.
operator: heavy rescue, bring your crew to the rear side of the building for cribbing.
caller: 3-1-1 us out front or out back.
caller: pressure down on the red line.
caller: red line, pressure down.
caller: fire center to all ems units on south main.
operator: all ems units on south main, switch to fire tech 2.
caller: i need two ambulances on the east side of the street, clear.
caller: commission base, go ahead.
operator: move fire operations to fire tech 3.
operator: all fire operations move to fire tech 3, 09:33.
caller: rescue operations will stay on 1.
caller: all rescue operations will stay on fire tech 1.
caller: do you need to send another ambulance down to loose bar and grill?
operator: lansing mason, are you clear?
caller: clear on that. we've got one clearing up from sparrow right now.
caller: i'll send them down.
caller: lansing trying to dispatch from leslie on lftac 3.
caller: kind of curtain down here. can i talk to, but can i get 40 here?
caller: when you come in bellevue street, come past main, the first block down.
caller: okay, who am i speaking with?
caller: it's leslie's command.
caller: responding up front, they're setting up command there.
caller: fire center, we are arriving at the scene, going to tacc 3.
caller: edwards 5085 at delhi.
caller: after you cross main street, come to church street and then go north.
caller: fire center, incident command, clear.
caller: find 301.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i can't get the traffic, sir.
caller: i'm in the city of la crescenta, and my accelerator is stuck. i can't stop the vehicle. i have a baby in the car with me.
operator: okay, ma'am, where are you?
caller: i'm on foothill just past angeles crest.
operator: going which way?
caller: i'm not sure, i just passed bel air drive on foothill, coming up to sports chalet drive.
operator: okay, and what kind of car are you in?
caller: a ford escort.
operator: what color is it?
caller: it's green, a dark green.
operator: how fast are you going now?
caller: my speedometer isn't working now, but before it stopped, it said 20 miles an hour or so. i'm coming up to a red light and there are cars. i can't stop.
operator: and your brakes aren't working?
caller: my brake isn't totally stopping it.
operator: okay, have you tried putting the car into neutral?
caller: it just revs then.
operator: okay, but you're not moving that way, right?
caller: yes.
operator: can you try putting the car into neutral and turning off the ignition?
caller: okay. trying that now. the car has died.
operator: you stopped moving?
caller: yes.
caller: thank you, oh my god.
operator: okay, so you're stopped now?
caller: yes.
operator: where are you exactly?
caller: i'm on central and oakwood, in front of vons.
operator: that's good. as long as you're stopped. i'm going to have somebody come and meet you to make sure you're okay and the baby is safe. the car is off and you're stopped, right?
caller: yes, in the middle of the street.
operator: that's fine. put your hazards on and just wait for us to get there, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: okay, no problem.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i am going eastbound on i-10 between la-30 and la-44.
caller: and there is a car westbound in the eastbound lane.
operator: what kind of car?
caller: it looks like a late model toyota sedan.
caller: it was heading from la-44 to la-30, westbound in the eastbound lanes.
operator: okay, tell me that vehicle description one more time.
caller: it looks like a late model toyota sedan. cars are running on the shoulder to avoid it. it's driving about 55 miles an hour on the wrong side of the road.
operator: a late model, what kind of sedan?
caller: toyota. i'm not sure the model, but it was a toyota sedan. it's probably near the la 44 interchange by now.
operator: all right, we got them on the way. thank you.
caller: thank you.
caller: all right, bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: is this new orleans?
operator: this is the city parish. how can i help you?
caller: great. i am on highway 10 heading east.
caller: your mile post 179, have you gotten a call about the car going at a fast speed in the wrong direction?
operator: yes, ma'am.
caller: great, thank you.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm coming up on exit 177, on i-10 in geismar. there's a car going westbound in the eastbound lane on interstate 10.
operator: okay, so it's westbound in the eastbound lane?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, coming up at exit 177 and geismar?
caller: yes.
operator: and what kind of vehicle was it?
caller: let me see. it's still going. i'm going to pull over so i can see it. it's a black... this is crazy. it looks like a black toyota. it just had a head-on crash.
operator: just had a head-on crash? okay.
caller: yes, and another truck hit it from behind.
operator: okay, thank you. we've got help on the way.
caller: all right, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, um, i'm sorry. there was an accident. a hunter shot a woman in the woods.
operator: where are you located?
caller: i'm in northern, behind jim blair's house.
operator: okay, what's your address?
caller: 98a oak street.
operator: 98a oak street, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: john berger. i'm a trooper.
operator: alright, john. how old is the woman who was shot?
caller: she is 66.
operator: where is she hit? can you see any blood?
caller: i can't see any blood. she's lying down.
operator: is she conscious and breathing?
caller: yes, she's conscious.
operator: okay, try to keep her calm. help is on the way. can you see any injuries?
caller: no, i don't see any blood. there's just a small hole in her stomach.
operator: can you stay with her and keep her as still as possible?
caller: yes, i'm staying with her.
operator: what's her name?
caller: cheryl blair.
operator: cheryl, are you able to talk to me?
caller: yes, but i'm in pain.
operator: hang in there, cheryl. help is on the way. can you describe the location more specifically?
caller: we're right behind the pig farm, about a quarter of a mile in the woods.
operator: alright, do you have a flashlight or anything to signal the responders?
caller: yes, i have a flashlight.
operator: keep that on so they can find you. can you hear the sirens?
caller: i hear them a little in the distance.
scenario:medical
operator: okay, keep whistling or making noise so they can locate you.
caller: alright. right here! over here!
operator: are they getting closer?
caller: yes, i see lights now.
operator: keep signaling with the flashlight.
caller: i just hope they see us.
operator: they should be able to. stay with cheryl and keep calm. help is almost there.
caller: i think i see them. right here! right here!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, i'm joan pearson, and i just killed two people.
operator: who did you kill?
caller: uh, matthew nagel and, uh, and, uh, um, mrs. nagel, i guess.
operator: okay, and where are you at right now?
caller: i am at 2901 north k street.
operator: and how did you kill them?
caller: with a knife.
operator: are they there with you?
caller: not anymore.
operator: where are they at?
caller: oh, well, they're here physically, but they're not here, yeah, spiritually.
operator: their bodies are there?
caller: yeah.
operator: who are they to you?
caller: no one.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name, joan peterson.
operator: peterson, what's your first name?
caller: joan.
operator: dylan, how do you spell your first name?
caller: d-y-l-a-n.
operator: and your middle initial, dylan?
caller: r.
operator: and your date of birth?
caller: come on. i just killed two people.
operator: what's your date of birth, dylan?
caller: come on.
operator: how old are you?
caller: just turn the lights on.
caller: give them here.
operator: okay. where are you at in the house?
caller: at the front door.
operator: where's the knife at?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, dylan, tell me where the knife is.
caller: i don't know.
caller: a knife? i'll look for it.
operator: no, i don't want you to get it. i want you to tell me where it's at in the house.
caller: um, no. i killed two people. it's awful.
operator: why did you kill them?
caller: why?
operator: uh-huh.
caller: why? oh.
operator: do you live there?
caller: no.
operator: okay, how did you get into their house?
caller: they let me in.
operator: okay.
caller: no.
caller: come on.
caller: i killed two people.
operator: i understand that, dylan.
caller: you got that?
operator: yes.
caller: i killed two people. i killed them.
operator: why did you kill them?
caller: because.
operator: because why?
caller: because i was born to.
caller: there's an orange camaro outside. there's a red neon, you know, somewhere near.
operator: is the camaro yours?
caller: no.
caller: no.
caller: no.
operator: okay. what type of car do you have?
caller: i don't drive.
caller: come on, give me a break.
operator: where do you live at?
caller: awful, awful. it's terrible.
caller: i called 999 and there's no cops here.
operator: okay, i gave you the street and the cross street. i gave you everything, and there are two people dead, and it's bloody, and it's gross.
operator: how long ago did you do this?
caller: after i knew both of them were dead.
operator: no, how long ago did that happen?
caller: are you sure?
operator: how long ago?
caller: poor sandy just stopped breathing.
caller: poor sandy just stopped breathing. poor sandy.
operator: is anybody else there with you?
caller: no.
caller: no, there's not. but there's a ton of blood.
caller: oh, god.
operator: are you still by the front door?
caller: no, but the front door is open.
operator: the front door's open?
caller: yeah. the dog's outside.
operator: where are you at in the house?
caller: by the front door. it's not a big apartment.
caller: okay. it's not a big apartment. stay outside with blood all over myself.
operator: are you inside or outside right now?
caller: i'm outside. i'm in the doorway talking to you.
caller: okay. looking at the trellis that is toppled over.
caller: i killed these people with a knife.
caller: okay. i killed people with a knife.
caller: do you know what that takes? it takes a lot.
caller: it's awful. it's terrible.
operator: do you know where the knife is right now?
caller: no.
operator: do you have it on you?
caller: no. i killed them and i lost it.
caller: you think i'm lying?
caller: you really think i'm lying?
operator: no, i believe you, dylan. i believe you.
caller: yeah. 16 percent in the morning.
caller: yeah. no. my dad is terrible. terrible. i killed them.
operator: did you know those people or did you just pick them out?
caller: everything comes to an end, right? everything.
caller: i killed two people. i killed them. i can't believe i killed them, but i did.
caller: i killed them. i killed them both. it was me.
caller: there's blood everywhere.
caller: there was a fight. it was terrible.
operator: what happened? they let you in and you had a fight with them?
caller: there are lifeless bodies here.
operator: did you go there with the intention to kill them, dylan?
caller: what intention?
caller: oh. i think they're here.
caller: i think the cops are here.
operator: they want you to stay on the phone.
caller: yeah, absolutely.
caller: no, the cops are here. doug's barking and the cops are here.
caller: yeah, they're here.
operator: okay, stay on the phone until i tell you it's okay to hang up, okay?
caller: the cops are here.
caller: they're here.
caller: oh. man.
operator: are you still in the doorway?
caller: no.
operator: where are you at now?
caller: i'm waiting for the cops.
operator: i know you're waiting for the cops, but where are you now?
caller: oh.
caller: that was me. it was all me. a massacre. disgusting.
caller: no, don't stop. they said, no, don't stop.
caller: i saw the knife. i saw the knife months ago.
caller: oh, yeah. my goodness.
caller: he's a talented boy.
operator: right here. i'm a sick mother. there were a ton of people there when this happened?
caller: no.
operator: so it was just you and the victims?
caller: no. no, it wasn't. come on. this is not a joke.
caller: this is not a joke. i'm talking to you. i'm staying on the phone.
operator: yeah, i understand it's not a joke.
caller: there's nobody here.
caller: yeah.
caller: yeah.
caller: no.
operator: is that your dog that's there?
caller: yeah, that's the dog.
operator: is it your dog? do you know what its name is?
caller: it's daisy.
operator: daisy?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: what type of dog is it?
caller: it's a black lab.
operator: okay. where is it at right now? is it outside or inside?
caller: oh, they're here.
caller: all right.
operator: okay, make sure your hands are visible.
caller: i will.
operator: if they call you out, make sure your hands are up, okay?
caller: okay. i have a bloody hand.
operator: okay, make sure they're up and visible.
operator: okay, go ahead and go out, dylan.
operator: you can head right towards them.
caller: yeah, i gotta go out. we're all right there.
caller: go, go. you go.
caller: you know, we can turn around.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't want to work, son.
operator: what?
caller: no.
caller: there's someone underneath the wheels of the car. she ran over three people!
operator: who did?
caller: where are you, alexander?
caller: at broadway and alexander.
caller: there's someone trapped under the wheels now. stop!
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: mike velt.
caller: a car ran over people. she almost ran me over too. can you hear the screams?
operator: are you still there?
caller: yes, i'm still here.
operator: what's your name?
caller: mike bills. i almost had to break the window with a baseball bat to keep her from running me over.
caller: she was driving on broadway and alexander.
operator: is the person who did this still there?
caller: yes, a woman in a dark car.
operator: can you see if the person under the car is breathing?
caller: i can't see well. they're face down, feet out. do you want me to check for a pulse?
operator: yes, please check.
caller: i have some emt training.
caller: i hope i'm not breaking the window, but i had to stop her from moving and crushing anyone further.
caller: he's still under the car. i'm checking for a pulse.
operator: is there a pulse?
caller: i can't feel any pulse. no nerve reaction.
caller: no distal pulse, i think he's dead.
operator: the lady driving the car, do you know where she went?
caller: she's still in the car. if she moves, i'll stop her.
operator: alright, are you near the car now?
caller: yes, i'm here.
operator: can you see anyone else injured?
caller: yes, a few people. one under the car, unconscious. one awake and conscious but in pain.
operator: are you okay to stay with them until help arrives?
caller: yes, i'll stay. i don't want to leave them.
operator: okay. help is on the way. stay calm.
caller: got it. i'll stay here.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a woman came into her house screaming that her son had been shot.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 1021 dood street, woodville, cain, iowa.
operator: okay, and your name?
caller: my name is arthur vasquez.
operator: is she needing an ambulance?
caller: yes, she needs an ambulance.
operator: where is she shot at?
caller: in her stomach.
operator: about how old is she?
caller: i think she's hurting right now, not sure about her age.
operator: okay, who else is injured?
caller: she said her son shot her husband and someone else.
operator: so, three people were shot?
caller: yes, her husband, her son, and someone else.
operator: do we know their status? are they alive?
caller: we don't know. she just came running out.
operator: okay. where's the guy with the gun?
caller: in their house still.
operator: i've got someone on the way over there. just stay in your house, okay?
caller: yes, sir. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at cracker barrel. i just informed my husband that i'm leaving him, and we got into an argument. we drove separately, but he refuses to leave the parking lot and keeps circling, waiting for me to leave.
operator: what kind of vehicle is he driving?
caller: he's in a jeep liberty. he owns a shotgun, but i didn't see it on him. i did see shotgun shells in his car.
operator: can you stay inside the restaurant and wait for the police to arrive?
caller: okay, i'll wait inside.
operator: officers are on their way to cracker barrel.
operator: i'm pulling up now, i see the jeep liberty driving through the parking lot.
operator: radio, officer on the scene. the suspect's vehicle is empty.
operator: oh my god, shots fired in the restaurant! shots fired in the restaurant!
operator: people are coming out saying he's inside shooting.
caller: i'm inside the restaurant. he's got a long gun, it sounds like.
operator: radio, notify other units.
caller: he's in the girls' bathroom with a gun, according to a witness.
operator: alright, we need two units at the back and two at the front.
operator: keep the air clear. he's in the girls' bathroom with a hostage, according to witnesses.
operator: engine two, police dispatch. is this a safe scene for the fire department?
caller: i can't talk. i have a hostage on the phone.
operator: fire department, hold your position until it's safe.
operator: we have reports of someone being shot and unresponsive.
scenario:medical
operator: i've just heard more shots over the phone. we need to locate him.
caller: get the fire department here. shots fired, and the suspect is down. the gun is out of his hand.
operator: confirm, the suspect is down and we have the weapon.
operator: rescue units, you can approach; the suspect is in custody.
caller: i'm hiding under the counter with another female. we have a dead female at the front desk and a juvenile shot, possibly dead.
operator: understood. stay where you are, help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i always get the two or five rights, so i said i'm going to get extra meat this time.
caller: but he didn't even, can you get me extra scrim or can you get my money back?
caller: and he saw a hollied.
caller: so i just said, i'm going to call the police.
operator: okay, we'll get somebody out there.
caller: and how long?
caller: i was trying to get a police officer up here.
caller: what has to happen?
operator: i'm going to send an officer. i just don't know how long it's going to take.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: communications, mrs. graham? this is allison ward, the principal at snipes academy. we have a dead body right out in front of our school on the grass area, but we're at the dorothy b. johnson location.
operator: what is the address, ma'am?
caller: 1100 mccray street.
operator: 1100 mccray, and it's a person out there?
caller: yes, my custodian found a young man. his body is stiff.
operator: and are you sure he's deceased?
caller: yes, he kicked him, and he's stiff. he didn't move. he appears to be in rigor. there's blood coming out of his nose. i mean, i'm not going to touch him, but i'd say he's definitely dead.
operator: that's okay. how old does he appear to be?
caller: he looks like he's probably between 18 to 22. we're right down from the wilmington police department, but we don't have a school resource officer.
operator: and you're at 1100 mccray?
caller: yes, ma'am, and i'm the principal here.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone for one minute, okay?
caller: yes, ma'am, not a problem.
operator: let me go ahead and get some help started over there.
caller: okay. we're going to need the medical examiner or whatever, i guess.
operator: is he a black or white male? can you tell?
caller: he's an african american male. we're covering the body so that if we have kids come.
operator: hang on a second. let's make sure you're allowed to touch him. and he has blood coming from where?
caller: he's coming out of his right nostril, that kind of ran down his nose.
operator: okay, yeah, don't touch him.
caller: so can we step in? i don't know how we're going to...
operator: and you say he's stiff?
caller: yes, ma'am. he's definitely stiff.
caller: we're trying to figure out how to keep kids from coming on campus until we can at least get this scene secured so they're not looking at this.
operator: okay, and i can tell you how to do cpr, do you think it's...
caller: no, ma'am, he's definitely beyond cpr, and we have several of us standing here trained first responders, but he is not.
operator: okay. holy cow. did anybody see what happened?
caller: no, ma'am, we just... i came in the dark this morning. i was here at 5:15, 5:20, and i didn't see anything.
caller: my head custodian came at about six or so, and my assistant principal just drove in, and she said there's somebody sleeping out in front of the school.
caller: we have to wait until they come to the scene. it looks like something came out of the nose.
caller: we may need help stopping buses and parent traffic; i don't think we should let kids or anybody on here until we have this cordoned off.
operator: you have an sro on site?
caller: not at the moment. maybe we can get to lock cars, but we've got to get the paramedics in here first.
operator: okay, i'll notify the sros and maybe they can get over there to help you out.
caller: that would be great. deputy mcmillan is at virgo and deputy curry is ours, and i know sergeant sears is here quite frequently.
operator: and you're at snipes academy, right?
caller: that's the name of the school but we're at the dorothy b. johnson site.
operator: okay, but it's 1100 mccray street?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, i have everybody on the way over there. i'm going to go ahead and let you go. just keep everybody away from him, away from the area as much as possible.
caller: okay.
operator: they need to investigate the surrounding area, just don't let anybody keep going up to them and walking around that area.
caller: okay, great.
operator: they should be there shortly.
caller: thank you.
operator: if anything changes before they get there, just call us back.
caller: yes, ma'am. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: plastic industries plant 1 across from lowe, 1712 congress parkway.
operator: yeah, what's the problem there?
caller: i've got a burglar.
operator: a burglar?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: in the building?
caller: yes, ma'am, in the building.
caller: i've got him. send the policemen out. tell them to come on in the building.
operator: and it's the third time.
caller: keep your hands out in front of you. lay down. i said to lay down.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: jeff bean.
operator: okay. all right. i'll get somebody on the way, mr. bean.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have been in the news recently about being in a hotel naked. and i have paparazzi outside my window and i was told by law enforcement that if i did to call 999.
operator: do you want to meet with an officer?
caller: yeah, these guys are sitting in a car outside my house right now. i would like to tell the officer to have them leave because the cops have told me to call 999 if they're outside my house.
operator: and then what's your name?
caller: my name is erin. my last name is andrews. i'm all over the news right now.
operator: i'm not familiar with that. can you tell me more about the situation?
caller: i'm the girl that was videotaped without her knowing, without her clothes on in the hotel. and i got two guys sitting outside my house.
operator: i'm so sorry to hear that. we'll get someone out to you. what kind of vehicle are they in?
caller: they're in a white rav4. i'm in a gated community, and i don't know how they got in.
operator: can you see a license plate?
caller: it's a handicapped license plate they have.
operator: what's the license plate number?
caller: we're trying to see. do you see it, mom? okay, i'm going to try to go to another room and see if i can read it. i do not believe these guys are knocking on my door. such assholes. okay, mom, you're totally being obvious.
operator: are they black, white, or hispanic?
caller: they're both white males. i think they know i'm here because i have a car out front. so they know i'm inside. i have private security that i'm working with, but they're not with me currently, and they say call 999.
operator: okay, here's the license plate.
caller: it's a handicapped license plate for georgia. they're looking at me through my window.
operator: are you okay?
caller: yeah, i'm just, i did nothing wrong, and i'm being treated like britney spears, and it sucks.
operator: i'm sorry to hear that. the first available unit will be dispatched to your location as soon as possible.
caller: okay. thanks. do you know how much longer it will take?
operator: they should be in the area and will be there as soon as possible.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe. goodbye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: hello?
caller: hello.
operator: yeah, what's going on, sir?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: sorry, what's going on?
caller: i'm sure.
operator: what is the address?
caller: lee.
operator: sir, what street are you on?
caller: at a condo.
operator: do you know the address?
caller: i'll have to ask this guy right here.
operator: rob, tell me what's going on. i've got it. where exactly are you at?
caller: somebody's been shot. i haven't checked the vitals, but he's down.
operator: okay, bear with me. where exactly are you at?
caller: second and lee.
operator: okay, talk to me so i can try to help you. where exactly are you?
caller: i'm walking out to the curb.
operator: is the person breathing?
caller: doesn't look like it.
caller: the condos are between second avenue and lee.
caller: cardwell place, 105 lee avenue.
operator: i have help on the way. please tell me what's going on.
caller: do i need to go back inside?
operator: that's up to you, but can you describe what happened?
caller: there are two bullet wounds on the side of the wall.
operator: do you know who it is or how you found this?
caller: this apartment. i received a phone call about an injured party inside.
operator: okay, what apartment is it?
caller: apartment four.
operator: alright, is there a name for the apartments?
caller: not that i know of.
operator: okay, and you’re not sure what the apartment address is?
caller: no, sir.
operator: okay, rob. i have help coming. tell me what happened.
caller: i have no idea. i received a phone call saying there was an injured party inside.
operator: are the injured party male or female?
caller: there are two people, both appear to be deceased.
operator: okay, can you identify their genders?
caller: it’s a male and a female.
operator: do you see the officer yet?
caller: i hear the sirens.
caller: i got a call from wayne, the roommate. he checked on them and found them.
operator: wayne is the roommate of one of the deceased parties?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. who are you?
caller: my name is robert gagney. i received the phone call and came down to check it out.
operator: and wayne is the one who called you?
caller: yes.
caller: can i get off the phone now?
operator: yes, talk to the officer when they arrive.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: okay, calm down.
caller: my babies are in there. oh, my god, i'm so scared.
operator: okay. can you tell me what happened?
caller: my husband's in the van, and it wouldn't stop. i saw him.
operator: okay. is the van in park now?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: can somebody check under the van?
caller: no, nobody can get to her. i don't hear anything.
operator: where exactly are you in relation to the pit stop?
caller: the cop's there. the cop is there.
operator: do you see the officers? i want you to wave them down.
caller: okay.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is nicole. my babies are in there. oh, my god. it was totally an accident.
operator: is the officer there?
caller: yeah, they are. can i go, please?
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a guy that just tried to get out of his car.
operator: he got out of his car and tried to what?
caller: he got out of his car, and he tried to get in my truck.
operator: what kind of car is he driving?
caller: he's driving a red jeep. his license plate number is yrf 481-2.
operator: which direction is he heading?
caller: he's going west on patton avenue.
operator: where exactly on patton avenue?
caller: at the light from new leicester highway.
operator: and where are you now?
caller: i'm on patton, just passing sevierville road.
operator: so he tried to get into your car, is that right?
caller: yeah, he tried to pull me out of the truck, and now he's right behind me.
operator: do you know why he tried to pull you out of the truck?
caller: because he cut me off, and i honked at him. when we got to the light, he jumped out and came to my truck.
operator: what's your name?
caller: julie. sorry, julie brown.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: <phone number>
operator: can you describe the guy?
caller: he's big, has a goatee, dark hair with gray in it.
operator: is he a white male?
caller: yes, he's a white male. there are three other people in the car with him.
operator: what kind of vehicle are you in?
caller: i'm in a silver ford f-150 pick-up.
operator: are you sure it's a red jeep cherokee?
caller: i'm not sure if it's a cherokee, but it's a red jeep. the license plate i gave is accurate.
operator: do you want to drive to a police station instead of home?
caller: yes, i don't want him following me home. is there one nearby?
operator: you can go to 970 haywood road, there's a substation there.
caller: i'm almost to exit 44.
operator: are you still on patton avenue?
caller: yes, it's patton avenue. it just goes straight out. i didn't get on the freeway.
operator: okay, so head to 970 haywood road. it's where the library and fire station are.
caller: there's a fire station in front of me. i'm heading there.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. can you pull over safely there?
caller: he's still behind me. i'm scared to stop.
operator: try to get to a very public place like a restaurant or store with lots of people around.
caller: okay, i'll try to get to shoney's or mcdonald's after exit 44.
operator: stay on the line and let me know what happens.
caller: he tried to whip around someone but got stuck in traffic.
operator: stay calm. can you see what he's doing now?
caller: he's stopping in the middle of the road. he's coming back.
operator: lock your doors. stay in the car. officers are on their way.
caller: he's turned around and coming back.
operator: stay in your vehicle, keep the doors locked. what direction is he coming from now?
caller: he drove past me but turned back. i think he's going away now.
operator: just stay there. we've got officers in route. stay calm.
caller: i can't see him now.
operator: okay, stay calm. do you know this guy at all?
caller: no, i don't know him.
operator: just hang tight. officers are almost there. can you flag them down when they arrive?
caller: yes, i will. thank you.
operator: great, stay calm. they'll be there shortly.
caller: okay, i see the officer. thank you.
operator: are you okay to hang up now?
caller: yes, thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there is a strange man outside our home, and he's hollering and crying out. i don't know what's going on with him.
operator: can you see anything about him? what he looks like?
caller: no, it's dark and raining.
operator: did he have a vehicle, or is he on foot?
caller: he's on foot.
operator: has he come to your door or windows?
caller: he's at our door.
operator: he's at your front door?
caller: he's at our back deck.
operator: okay, hold on one second for me, okay?
caller: i'm going to give you to my wife. i'm going to go get my gun.
caller: hello.
operator: ma'am, hold on one second for me, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: oh my god. hey, get out of there!
operator: ma'am, what's wrong?
caller: he's trying to break down the door.
operator: okay, ma'am, we've got deputies headed that way, okay?
caller: all right, thank you.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: don't hang up with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: no matter what happens, just don't hang up the phone. you can set it down if you have to.
caller: i think he's got a gun.
caller: get out of the way, get out of the way.
caller: he has a gun. i don't know if that's what he's got.
operator: ma'am, can you see the gun?
caller: no, i don't know if that's what it is. he's trying to break down the door. i can't tell.
caller: we have louvers on the door and the door is shut. it's a sliding glass door.
operator: is he able to get in the door?
caller: not right now. he's trying.
operator: what's he doing now, ma'am?
caller: he's asking what date it is. he's talking about vietnam in 1969.
operator: is he talking to your husband rationally?
caller: no, he is not.
operator: does your husband know him?
caller: no, we can't even see who it is.
operator: did you hear a vehicle or anything like that pull up, or did he just walk?
caller: i didn't know he was there until he was at the back door. i can't tell. it's dark.
operator: can you ask your husband to look to see if it looks like he has a weapon?
caller: i do not want to look because he's beating on the door and i'm afraid if i open the screen, he's going to come through.
operator: okay, what's he doing now?
caller: i don't hear anything now.
operator: is your husband still at the back door?
caller: we're standing here in the kitchen, and he's trying to get into the sliding glass door.
operator: what side of the house is the sliding glass door on?
caller: it's in the back of the house.
operator: okay, tell your husband to keep talking to him if he can.
caller: he's talking about busting the door down and something about a watch. he's given us a few minutes; he's counting down.
operator: the guy outside the house is counting down, saying he's going to bust the door down?
caller: yes, i don't want to hurt you, okay?
caller: he's talking about vietnam.
operator: is he talking to your husband?
caller: no, he is not.
operator: okay. does your husband know him?
caller: no, we don't know who he is. we can't see him.
operator: okay, we don't want to hang up.
caller: they're on the way. we've got several officers on the way.
operator: tell your husband to look to see if that man has a weapon.
caller: i do not want to look because he's beating on the door.
operator: okay, where's your husband right now?
caller: we're standing here in the kitchen, and he's trying to get into the sliding glass door.
operator: what's he doing now, ma'am?
caller: i don't hear anything now.
operator: is he still at the back deck?
caller: he's at the back deck.
operator: okay, i've got officers on the way, so please stay on the phone.
caller: he's saying he doesn't care who my husband is.
operator: is he talking about vietnam?
caller: yes, and he's beating on the door.
operator: okay, ma'am. there should be a deputy close.
caller: i hear him walking around outside on the deck. he's trying to get through the door. you have got to get somebody here.
operator: they're on the way, ma'am. i promise, okay? they're coming as fast as they can.
operator: what door is he beating on? the sliding glass door at the back?
caller: yes, the sliding glass door at the back.
operator: do you have any neighbors or anything like that, that could be of help?
caller: no.
operator: is he talking to your husband?
caller: he's beating on the door. i can see the glass is going to break.
operator: i can hear it, okay? i have officers on the way. just stay on the phone with me. everything's going to be alright.
caller: he's saying he doesn't care who my husband is. are you a soldier?
operator: okay.
caller: he's beating the door, and it's glass.
operator: i can hear him saying he doesn't care who you are.
caller: the back sliding glass door.
operator: okay, ma'am. there should be a deputy close, okay?
caller: okay, he's at the back deck.
caller: oh my god, he's getting ready to come in.
caller: oh my god! oh my lord!
operator: ma'am? ma'am?
caller: he just came through and my husband shot him, but he's still moving.
operator: the husband shot him. where did he shoot him?
caller: i don't know.
operator: where is your husband?
caller: he's standing here in the kitchen to make sure he doesn't come in.
operator: i want you to tell your husband to put the gun down.
caller: what if he comes in to try to attack him?
operator: ma'am, if he shot him, he's not going to get up. tell your husband to put the gun down, please.
caller: she says to put the gun down.
operator: is he laying on the ground? is he breathing?
caller: we cannot tell.
operator: is it still dark? is he on the back deck?
caller: yes, he's laying on the back deck.
operator: okay, ma'am. it's going to be okay.
caller: they just turned on the light.
operator: ma'am, there's a deputy there, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: where is the man that your husband shot?
caller: i guess he's still out on the back deck.
operator: i need to talk to your husband. where is your husband?
caller: he's right here.
operator: i need to talk to him.
caller: here, talk to him.
caller: hello.
operator: yes, sir. have you put the weapon down?
caller: i have put the weapon down.
operator: okay, now what happened?
caller: he busted through my back patio door and was coming into the house. i shot two shots at him in the chest.
operator: is he laying on the back deck?
caller: i'm pretty sure; it's dark. i hear him moaning.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, i was told to call by my dad to tell where we're at.
operator: alright, can you tell me your location?
caller: we are on f28 just getting stop mom. we are just getting onto the old uproad highway six roads.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: huh?
caller: on to now. 12.
operator: okay. we have the police that are trying to help you out there. are you scared?
caller: who are you talking to?
operator: you can leave the line open if you don't want to talk on the phone. if you want to act like you're hanging it up, you can just leave it open, okay, and i can follow you.
caller: okay. thank you.
caller: who are you talking to?
caller: um, i was talking to 999. is that for me to call them?
caller: yeah.
caller: and there's the sheriff. right there?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, we just drove by the sheriff.
operator: you just drove by the sheriff?
caller: yeah. pulling into the hummer parking lot. he just pulled in.
operator: is he pulling you over?
caller: yeah, he's pulling up behind us.
operator: okay, thank you. do you feel safe disconnecting?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, you did a good job, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome, thank you.
caller: thank you.
caller: right. yep. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 125 signal hill road.
operator: okay, what's going on over there?
caller: someone was murdered, i think?
operator: where exactly?
caller: my house.
operator: i need you to listen to me and stay calm. where do you think someone was murdered?
caller: in my house.
operator: in your house? okay, what's in your house?
caller: please hurry.
operator: ma'am, i'm sending officers right now. i need to know more about what's going on. what makes you think someone was murdered?
caller: my husband is in a pool of blood.
operator: your husband is in a pool of blood?
caller: yes, quickly.
operator: they're on the way. did you just get home?
caller: yes.
operator: is anybody else home with you?
caller: i don't see anyone.
operator: are you with your children right now?
caller: no, i don't see my son. he's gone.
operator: how old is your son?
caller: 22.
operator: he's 22. what does he look like? this is really important.
caller: normal, but i think he had some problems.
operator: go over to your husband for me. is he breathing?
caller: are they on their way?
operator: they've been on the way since you called. is your husband breathing?
caller: i don't think so.
operator: are you right next to him?
caller: yes.
operator: can you get close to him?
caller: yes, but not really with the cord.
operator: his face is bludgeoned?
caller: yes.
operator: is there a weapon nearby?
caller: i don't see one. wait, yes, a pick or a hammer.
operator: a pick or a hammer? okay. ma'am, they're on the way. i need you to stay on the phone with me.
caller: i can't believe this.
operator: listen to me, ma'am. what i'm going to tell you is very important. i do not want you to touch anything.
caller: okay.
operator: are you certain that your husband is not breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: if you want, put the phone down and try to get as close to him as possible without touching the pick or hammer.
caller: there's so much blood.
operator: i know, but this is important. is he moving?
caller: he's not moving.
operator: if you call his name, does he respond?
caller: ed. ed. no.
operator: okay, i'm staying here with you until they get there. you're at 125 signal hill road, correct?
caller: yes. mrs. ramsey?
operator: how soon will they be there?
caller: i can't do this.
operator: if you think he's beyond help, you can leave the house if you want.
caller: no, i'm staying here.
operator: do you think he's beyond help?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: go to the bathroom.
operator: go to the bathroom, are you in it?
caller: how did it 9-9-9-1?
operator: this is 9-9-9, what is your emergency?
caller: east edwards, shots have been fired.
operator: where are you? what is the exact address?
caller: i'm at east edgewood.
caller: he's fired in a driveway, right across the street.
operator: okay, what's he shooting at?
caller: he's shooting at me.
caller: he's shooting at me.
caller: i've been shot. she's been shot. he's on the ground. we're in the driveway.
operator: who is that?
caller: he shot into the wall. scott eric schmidt. he had a gun. he has shot me. he has shot her. he's on the ground. there are two little kids here. please hurry.
operator: are they both outside?
caller: what?
operator: are they both outside?
caller: yes, they're in the driveway. i've got the two little kids in the house. please.
operator: okay, i'm sending help now. do you know what the exact address is?
caller: calm down to me, okay?
caller: oh my god, they're here.
operator: what is the exact address?
caller: 9-09 east edgewood.
operator: that's your address, right? what's their address?
caller: that's not. that's your address. he's still got the gun.
operator: okay. where did he go?
caller: he's in the driveway with her.
caller: oh my god. he's got it. please hurry.
operator: someone is on the way, okay? try to stay calm.
caller: oh my god. everyone is everywhere. we knew he was going to do this. we knew.
operator: who lives there?
caller: my son-in-law. my daughter's house.
operator: do you think he's out there now with her?
caller: he shot me in the chest. he shot.
operator: are you there now?
caller: no, no. i got out.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: he was in the driveway. he still got the gun.
operator: okay. stay calm. help is on the way.
caller: he still got the gun in the driveway.
operator: is it a medical call now?
caller: it's my son-in-law.
operator: so it's a male, not a female?
caller: my god! ma'am, help me here. is it a male or female?
caller: a female. my daughter. she has blood everywhere. please.
operator: you've got two people that are shot or one?
caller: yeah, two.
operator: what do you now?
caller: he's not supposed to have any guns. he's on probation.
operator: what is his name?
caller: scott eric schmidt.
operator: and where did he go with the gun?
caller: he's in the driveway.
operator: what kind of gun is it?
caller: a small handgun, i don't know guns.
operator: what's he wearing?
caller: a navy blue fire department jacket.
operator: a blue fire department jacket? okay. they're on the way, ma'am, stay with me, okay?
caller: are you injured, ma'am?
caller: yes, he shot me in the chest.
operator: okay, all right.
caller: oh my god, you bastard. you son of a gun!
operator: i need you to get away from him right now.
operator: ma'am, ma'am, get away from him.
caller: oh my god, he did it. he did it.
caller: oh my god, kelly!
operator: kelly's your daughter?
caller: it's my daughter. my daughter.
operator: what's kelly's last name?
caller: kelly wing. scott schmidt.
caller: kelly, are you all right?
scenario:medical
operator: is she awake? can you tell me if she's breathing?
caller: oh my god. my god, i don't know.
operator: ma'am, then go down and look at her. i need you to tell me.
operator: tell me, i need information from you. you've got to help me understand.
caller: ask me what you want.
operator: tell me if she is breathing.
caller: she just gasped?
operator: so she is breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: where did he go?
caller: i don't know. he came out of the door with the gun, shot her. she was on the ground. she yelled at me to get out of here, but i tried to protect her and he got me.
operator: okay. he had a plan. he knew what he was doing.
caller: yes. that son of a bitch.
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name is barbara wing.
operator: barbara wing, all right. help is on the way.
caller: oh my god. please hurry.
operator: i know. stay with me. do not engage with him, okay?
caller: there's so much blood everywhere. i love you, honey.
operator: did he go back inside?
caller: no, he's by the car.
operator: okay, the police are on the way now.
caller: oh my god. he shot her a couple of times and then... he got me.
operator: is she breathing now?
caller: i don't know.
operator: check if her chest is rising for me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are those two little children your grandchildren?
caller: all of my grandchildren are here.
operator: they are there? are they inside the house?
caller: yes, they're inside.
operator: are you injured?
caller: yes, he shot me. it burns.
operator: okay. are you talking with an officer now?
caller: yes.
operator: i'm going to let you go then, okay?
caller: okay. there are two little kids inside. one and four years old.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: well, my husband's not, i can't seem to wake him up.
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i'm not sure. he was sleeping really heavily, and i was just laying here, and all of a sudden the breathing kind of, like, stopped, and i came over to try to wake him up, and i can't wake him up.
operator: are you with him right now?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 52.
operator: okay. and he's not awake?
caller: no.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i can't tell. i can't hear anything. i'm trying to feel for a pulse.
operator: can you see his chest rising up and down?
caller: hold on, he's looking. no.
operator: okay, we're going to go ahead and send an ambulance. i'm going to tell you what to do until they get there, okay? is he on the bed?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, we're going to need to pull him off the bed and get him on the floor.
caller: okay, i have to go see if i can get my son to help me. can you hold on?
operator: yes, i can.
caller: okay. okay, he's on the floor.
operator: okay, the ambulance is already on the way. are you right by him now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, listen carefully. we want to lay him flat on his back on the ground and remove any pillows, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: feel next to him and look in his mouth for food or vomit. is there anything in the mouth?
caller: no.
operator: now place your hand on his forehead. your other hand under his neck, then tilt the head back. put your ear next to his mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: okay, hold on. let me see if i can hear him breathing. i can't, i don't think so.
operator: okay, i'm going to tell you what to do until they get there.
caller: okay.
operator: listen carefully, i'm going to tell you how to do the chest compressions, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: make sure he's flat on his back on the ground.
caller: okay, he is.
operator: place the heel of your hand on his breastbone in the center of his chest, right between the nipples. place your other hand on top of that hand, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: push down firmly two inches with only the heel of your lower hand touching the chest. do you understand?
caller: yes.
operator: now listen carefully, we're going to pump the chest hard and fast, at least twice per second. we're going to do this 600 times or until help can take over, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: let the chest come all the way up between pumps. count out loud so i can count with you, okay?
caller: okay. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
operator: move the dog beds.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: straighten his legs.
operator: send somebody to go open the door, okay?
caller: okay, amy, go unlock the door, get everything open, the gate and everything. you keep doing, you're doing a great job.
caller: do i need to breathe or anything into his mouth?
operator: no, no, just keep the chest compressions going. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
operator: keep going, you're doing a great job.
caller: five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
caller: hi. okay, if somebody's here.
operator: okay, i'll go ahead and hang up with you then.
caller: okay.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 999, do you have the entire medical police?
operator: no, ma'am, i don't.
caller: i don't have an emergency, too. police officers just left my house just now.
operator: can i get their names, please?
caller: it was just the music turned down. he was the cutest cop i've seen.
caller: sorry, i know it's not an emergency, but good-looking men don't come by often.
caller: can you send him back my way?
operator: do you need them to come back there?
caller: oh, i'd like that, yeah.
operator: why do you need them to come back there?
caller: because i have an emergency... i'll think of something.
caller: just send them back my way, would you?
operator: okay, and what is the reason?
caller: my dog. just blame it on my dog.
caller: can i discuss that with them? thank you.
caller: i know this isn't an emergency. but if you would give the officers my number and ask them to come back, i know they have lots to do.
caller: would you mind?
operator: i'll give them a message to call you.
caller: thank you very much. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, my brother.
operator: hello?
caller: my brother is drowning.
operator: where are you at?
caller: um, at the pond on washburn.
operator: at the pond on washburn? do you know where on washburn?
caller: no.
operator: okay. do you have any of your parents around?
caller: no.
operator: okay. i'm trying to find where you're at right now, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm seven.
operator: you're seven. do you know what the name of the park is where you're at?
caller: central park.
operator: are you at the community center?
caller: yes. he's fallen in the water.
operator: okay. is he still in the water?
caller: yes, he's in the water.
operator: okay, i'm sending help right now, alright?
caller: alright.
caller: he's crying.
operator: okay, are you on clay street?
caller: no, not clay. i don't know.
operator: okay. help is on the way, alright?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay on the line if you can, okay? bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's 291 stevens drive, apartment 202.
operator: what is it?
caller: he came into my apartment and i shot him.
operator: you shot someone?
caller: yes.
operator: who did you shoot?
caller: someone just got into my apartment and i shot him.
operator: okay. was it a male?
caller: yes.
operator: where is he at?
caller: he's in my apartment.
operator: okay, you're at 291 stevens drive, right?
caller: yes.
operator: was he breaking into your house?
caller: yes, he came in with a knife.
operator: you don't know who he was?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: so he came into your apartment with a knife and tried to attack you?
caller: yes, he was trying to kill me.
operator: where is he in the house?
caller: he's in the living room.
operator: where did you shoot him?
caller: in the living room, by the couch.
operator: okay, ma'am, we've got everybody on the way, okay? where is the gun?
caller: it's in the living room, i dropped it.
operator: where was he when you shot him?
caller: he was by the couch, coming at me.
operator: okay, calm down. you said the gun is by him?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know where you shot him?
caller: no, i don't want to look.
operator: okay, is this apartment 202?
caller: yes, apartment 202.
operator: alright, don't worry, help is on the way. just stay where you are.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: so the door was unlocked and this person came in. do you live alone?
caller: yes, i'm the only one here.
operator: where were you when he came in?
caller: i was in the bathroom, then i heard yelling.
operator: and where did you keep the gun?
caller: the gun was in my bedroom. i ran to get it.
operator: so, after he came in, he was yelling at you and you ran to the bedroom to get the gun?
caller: yes, and when i turned around, he was coming at me with the knife.
operator: he had a knife and was coming after you?
caller: yes, he was.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is kat jackson.
operator: can you spell your last name?
caller: j-a-c-k-s-o-n.
operator: how old are you, kat?
caller: 38.
operator: alright, kat, just stay on the line with me until help arrives, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: coconut island, there's an emergency.
operator: can you tell me what's happening?
caller: my granddaughter and my daughter are dead.
operator: they're what? dead?
caller: dead. dead. they're dead.
operator: what do you mean they're dead? how are they dead?
caller: i killed them.
operator: you killed them?
caller: yes.
operator: what's the address?
caller: maine and kilpatrick.
operator: is there an exact address?
caller: no, just maine and kilpatrick.
operator: your daughter and your granddaughter?
caller: yes.
operator: and you killed them?
caller: yes.
operator: how did you kill them?
caller: with a knife.
operator: with a knife?
caller: yes.
operator: sir?
caller: yes.
operator: can you tell me what happened? why did this happen?
caller: listen, can you get the police over here?
operator: police and fire department are already on the way. can you tell me what happened?
caller: i'll let the cops know what happened when they get here.
operator: can you tell me anything about what happened?
caller: i'll let them know as soon as they arrive.
operator: and where's the knife right now?
caller: it's right next to them.
operator: it's next to them?
caller: yes, it's right next to them.
operator: 9-9-9, where is your emergency?
caller: i'm sorry. actually, i'm wanted for a crime, and i want to turn myself in.
operator: you are wanted for what type of crime, sir?
caller: to be honest with you, i don't know what they're calling it. i got drunk and i attacked somebody.
operator: what town are you in?
caller: i'm sorry, what?
operator: what town are you in?
caller: yeah, it's dunmore.
operator: do you know if there's a warrant out for your arrest?
caller: honestly, i don't know.
operator: where are you located right now?
caller: right now, i'm at the shell gas station. i don't know the name of the street. it's right by ricardo's little mini market down the road here, and there's a joe's quick mart here.
operator: so you're at the 1200 block of wheeler avenue?
caller: i believe so, yeah, right down the road from ohio.
operator: 1219 wheeler avenue in dunmore, right?
caller: i believe so, yeah.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: it's lake, l-a-k-e.
operator: and where did this happen?
caller: in dunmore.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: what's your first name?
caller: it's charles.
operator: and you're at the shell station?
caller: yes.
operator: and the phone number you're calling from is 9618109?
caller: i'm sorry, what?
operator: 9618109 is the phone number you're calling from?
caller: well, actually, i'm in front of the quick mart, joe's quick mart.
operator: okay. watch for the police. we'll send them over. your name is charles, right?
caller: all right. well, i'm going to walk over in front of the shell so that there's no commotion over here because they're closing up and doing whatever they've got to do in this store.
operator: all right, watch for the police.
caller: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is letitia from the store big five on green valley. i have a person that is robbing me right now of my firearms. i need police to the store immediately.
operator: okay. is he still in the store?
caller: he is still in the store and he is getting my gun and he is breaking the lock with tools.
operator: is he white, black or hispanic?
caller: he is hispanic.
operator: about how old?
caller: he gave me his id. he actually came to purchase again. and he was born in 1989. so, he's 22.
operator: what color shirt or jacket?
caller: he's wearing a black shirt, black jeans. it has writing on his shirt. he's five foot seven, 150 pounds.
operator: where is he now?
caller: he's in the firearms counter and he is sawing away at my firearms. he's sawing off the gun in his hand and he's sawing it off.
operator: what do you mean by sawing off the gun?
caller: he's got an electric saw blade. he is sawing my gun in half. he just grabbed the ammunition. he's actually loading the gun. please send someone.
operator: we've been on the way since we started talking. where are you?
caller: i am in my office looking right at him. yeah, it's like that yellow writing on his shirt. it's like a rasta kind of looking shirt.
operator: are you open for business?
caller: i am open for business. he is now walking towards outside the store. there is a customer in the front that doesn't even know what's going on.
operator: where is he now?
caller: he is in the front of the store. he is walking towards the front. he is right at my doors. i think that he is waiting for some other people and he's going to get more.
operator: do you see anyone else with him?
caller: no, he's by himself.
operator: and did he load the gun?
caller: he loaded the gun. he sawed it in half and loaded the gun. and he's walking back towards me. oh my god, he just fired. shots fired.
operator: what's he shooting at?
caller: i don't know. i just got underneath the desk.
operator: okay, that's okay. we're on our way, they should be there momentarily. anyone hit, do you know?
caller: not that i know of. i know my cashier ducked down, she's scared.
operator: they're outside, they're coming in.
caller: thank you. where is he? do you know?
operator: it's okay, i'm staying on the phone with you. do you hear anything?
caller: i think he went back into the firearms counter. we have a buzzer so i can hear. he's trying to get into my office. hold on. i'm going to tell them.
operator: i have two employees out there that are unprotected, i'm so scared for them. any other shots fired?
caller: no, just one. just one shot. and you heard the alarm go off?
operator: no, the alarm has not gone off.
caller: oh my god, they're yelling. two more shots. two more shots. he's yelling 'get down'. he's firing again.
operator: okay, ma'am, the guy with the gun is down right now, okay? so you're okay at this moment. the officers are in there.
caller: okay, thank you so much.
operator: stay on the phone with me. was there ever a second suspect or just that one man?
caller: just the one man. he came in for a transaction. i didn't notice anyone else.
operator: the officers are going to come and knock on your door. your office door. i'm staying on the phone with you until they knock.
caller: okay.
operator: are you okay?
caller: yes, it was just one man.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please help me. i'm at county road 900 north and 600 east.
caller: we were building a tv tower and two of my guys fell off. they're dead.
operator: sir, i need you to stay on the line with me. do not hang up. do you understand?
caller: yes, ma'am. just hurry, please.
operator: i am hurrying. are you by yourself?
caller: no, there are other people here. the other three are okay, but two of the guys are dead.
operator: i'm getting you some help. stay with me. do you have any electrical lines down?
caller: no, there are no power lines down. the gym pole fell and knocked them off.
operator: how far did they fall?
caller: they fell 350 feet.
operator: you're doing a good job. help is coming, but i need to keep you on the phone. what's your name?
caller: it's david.
operator: david, where are you from?
caller: i'm not from here.
operator: we know where you are, david. just hang tight. how are the other men who are not hurt?
caller: they're okay.
operator: i need someone to watch for the responders. can they see you from the road?
caller: no, we're not visible from the road.
operator: alright, someone will need to wave them down. where are you guys from?
caller: i'm from indiana. junior's from texas, and david's from georgia.
operator: how long have you been working in the area?
caller: about two weeks.
operator: tell me how the accident happened.
caller: we were building the tower. the gen pole was going up, and suddenly it came down and knocked them off.
operator: it's important that nobody touches anything around the accident area. are you all doing okay?
caller: david is sitting down. we're watching him.
operator: alright. i'm very sorry this happened. help is coming, and they will take care of you all.
caller: i hear the sirens coming.
operator: wave your arms to signal them if you're by the road.
caller: someone's here in a truck now.
operator: good, are you with them?
caller: yes, they're first responders.
operator: alright, i'm going to hang up now. they'll take care of you.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: sheriff's office. justine says me help you.
caller: hey, who's it?
operator: sheriff's office, can i help you?
caller: yeah, who is this, denby? who is it?
caller: oh, demby, this is joy.
caller: hey, you know, i can't fight at 149-00 polly road.
caller: they got a fight?
caller: uh, you know, like, almost a beheading, yeah.
operator: a beheading?
caller: yeah, i killed her.
operator: you killed her?
caller: yeah.
operator: who did you kill?
caller: 149-00, coward.
operator: who did you kill, demby?
caller: my wife. my ex-wife.
operator: what's your name?
caller: his name is holland.
operator: who else is there with you, denby?
caller: just me and my dog. just take good care of my dog.
operator: okay, stand by with me, okay? don't hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: 217. all units 335, 149-00 polly road. this is code 20. your guy is there.
caller: okay, what did you use, sweetie? what kind of weapon?
caller: kbar, combat knife, the maincourt knife.
operator: where's the knife at now?
caller: um, i think it's out in the backyard next to the body.
operator: the body's in the backyard?
caller: i don't have anything. i'm not, i'm not dangerous. i just couldn't deal with her shit anymore.
caller: i'm waiting. i'm in the kitchen.
operator: if i put you on hold, will you not hang up? will you stay there, okay?
caller: oh yeah, i'm not armed. i have no weapons on me.
operator: okay, don't hang up. i'm gonna get an ambulance out there. okay, don't hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: sheriff's office, how can i help you?
operator: ambulance at 149-00 polly road. i have a guy on the line who says he just beheaded his wife. he's in the house.
operator: i have an ambulance en route. no, i have squad. it's actually, sorry, it's one of our cos. i know him personally. he's saying his wife's in the backyard and he beheaded her. the knife's in the backyard.
operator: yes, just stand by until you get there, okay?
operator: okay, we'll tell them. all i know is her name's holland. i don't know how old she is.
operator: all right. we'll send the ambulance. thanks.
caller: demby, you still there?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. there's no kids there with you, demby?
caller: no, she's at my mom's.
operator: okay. you've been drinking or anything?
caller: i had a few, but i'm not drunk, no.
operator: you don't have any guns, do you?
caller: not on me, no, they're locked up. i'm not, i'm not... they're all locked up.
operator: you have no weapons on you, and you're not going to cause any problems. what about a landline or cell phone?
caller: no.
operator: okay. stay on with me, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: demby, you don't have any guns or anything on you, right? everything's locked up.
caller: yeah, i'm not doing anything, yeah.
operator: yeah, i still have to ask those same questions, okay? the squads are en route and so are my units. when they get there, until they make contact with you, i mean, we're still going to, i'm going to have to let them know everything is going on, anything you tell me, okay? are you sitting down? are you standing up? what's going on?
caller: hello?
caller: demby.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, this is north las vegas tower. it looks like we have an aircraft on its way down.
operator: where is the aircraft?
caller: near simmons and kerry. we have a crash at simmons and kerry.
operator: and it's an aircraft down?
caller: aircraft down.
operator: what type of aircraft?
caller: it's an experimental velocity. i believe there was only one person on board, but i can't confirm that.
operator: do you know if they got out?
caller: it does not appear so right now.
operator: how close is it to the north las vegas airport?
caller: about one mile southeast, a mile and a half southeast of the airport.
operator: is it in the intersection?
caller: i can't see from here.
operator: okay, if i can provide any other information, i'll forward it.
caller: control center. we did an alert three, crash. it crashed into a house.
operator: an experimental aircraft?
caller: yes.
caller: i've seen a plane for north las vegas plane and it's in flames, but i'm trying to give you the cross street. i think it's off of lake mead and martin luther king.
operator: oh, my god, it hit a house?
caller: yes, it hit a house off of lake mead, and we're getting there now.
operator: okay, we're getting help there now. can you provide the exact address if possible?
caller: 2313 cambridge.
operator: is the house on fire?
caller: yes, the house is on fire. there are people in the house.
operator: we have units responding, okay? can i have your telephone number?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: okay, they are on their way. how are you spelling cambridge?
caller: c-a-m-b-r-i-d-g-e.
operator: thank you. we have units responding already.
caller: thank you.
caller: fire or medical? a huge explosion on lake mead between tonopah and simmons. huge explosion just happened, and the flames are just shooting up.
operator: can you see what it is?
caller: i can't see what it is because the building's in the way, but there was just a huge explosion.
operator: all right, we have units responding. thank you.
caller: fire or medical? are you near lake mead and simmons area?
caller: yeah.
operator: we're on the way. we already have it, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: fire or medical? there's a huge fire going on across the street from me. the house is on fire.
operator: can you see it?
caller: yes, it's coming out of the front now, too. it's horrible.
operator: we just had a plane crash there.
caller: oh, maybe that's it. oh, my god. there are some older people that live in that house.
operator: we are getting reports from all over. we'll be there shortly.
caller: fire or medical? there is a house on fire, it's huge.
operator: what's the address, please?
caller: i don't know, i'm driving down the street and i can see it over a wall. it's on cambridge heights, off of lake mead and simmons area.
operator: all right, looks like we have units on the way.
caller: yeah, and i mean, it's raging.
operator: you see a house on fire?
caller: yes, like the whole roof is on fire.
operator: we have someone on the way. thank you.
caller: fire or medical? we have a house that just exploded, it's like six houses away from me.
operator: we had an aircraft that went down.
caller: okay, it landed in a house.
operator: do you know if anyone was in that house?
caller: i don't know, i'm assuming so.
operator: what's your address?
caller: it's seven houses away from my house.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. please keep everyone away from it.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: need some help in here.
operator: 9-9-9. do you need police, fire, or medical assistance?
caller: yeah, i need the police and the fire department at sundrop bottom.
operator: okay, what's the problem?
caller: something's gone wrong in the office.
operator: something's what?
caller: something's wrong in the office.
operator: what do you mean something's wrong?
caller: i don't know. i just walked in and there are two women lying on the floor, bleeding like crazy.
operator: two women?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: do you think they've been shot or what?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, but they're both bleeding?
caller: yeah, they're bleeding like crazy.
operator: okay. i'm transferring you to the ambulance service. don't hang up on me.
operator: berry county, 999.
caller: yeah, i need an ambulance and the police department down here at sundrop bottom, 305 360 carbirus avenue.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: i just walked in and found two women lying on the floor, bleeding like crazy. please send help right away.
operator: okay, sir, just calm down. stay on the phone with me. are they breathing?
caller: i see a puddle of blood. i don't think one is breathing. they're not moving. one is still, but she's barely breathing, and there's a lot of blood.
operator: do you know who they are?
caller: yes, one works here, and the other is her daughter.
operator: hold on. county, i'm still on the phone. yes, ma'am. we've got the police and first responders on the way. are there any other victims?
caller: just those two.
operator: sir, did you see anything? anybody leaving the office or any arguments?
caller: i saw a young boy running across the field carrying a box, but i don't know if it's related. i just came from the chevrolet place.
operator: are you an employee there?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what is your name, sir?
caller: butch ham's. bruce ham's is my real name.
operator: is it bruce ham?
caller: yes. please, hurry.
operator: we've got everybody en route, sir. hang on. make sure not to touch anything.
operator: sir, are you still there?
caller: yes.
operator: do not touch anything and stay in the office. county, do you need to talk to him?
caller: a boy running by said he heard two noises.
operator: okay, there's someone there who heard something? where is he?
caller: he's right here.
operator: what's his name? put him on the phone.
caller: i don't know if they were gunshots. i heard two snaps.
operator: alright, what is your name, sir?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: i'm don whitfield.
operator: don what?
caller: whitfield. w-h-i-t-f-i-e-l-d.
operator: you heard two snaps? like two pops?
caller: yes.
operator: how long ago was that, sir?
caller: probably in the last 3 to 4 minutes.
operator: did you see anyone leaving the office?
caller: no, i didn't see anything. i was down the hall.
operator: i need you to stay there and talk to the officers when they arrive. is there anything else you could tell me that might help?
caller: no, i was listening to music and working on my computer with my back turned. i'm down the hall, four offices away from the scene.
operator: alright, we've got the police en route. please stay there for the officers. there's an officer arriving soon.
caller: do i need to stay on the line?
operator: no, you don't need to stay on the line. county, do you need to ask them anything else?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fire emergency!
operator: what city are you in?
caller: daypoint.
operator: is this a house?
caller: yes, house upstairs.
operator: what's going on?
caller: the bedroom is on fire. my house is burning fast!
operator: okay, we're on the way. just calm down. is anybody upstairs?
caller: i am, and i can't get down.
operator: you can't get down?
caller: no.
operator: okay. anybody else in the house?
caller: yeah, but i don't know where they're at now.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 65.
operator: the room you're in, is it on fire?
caller: no, it's the other end of the house.
operator: okay. can you crawl and get down any way at all?
caller: i'm outside on the deck.
operator: you're outside on the deck. okay. can you put any towels or anything under the door to keep the smoke out?
caller: i can't get the door shut. it's blown out. my hair is fried.
operator: what floor are you on?
caller: i'm on the second floor.
operator: is the deck in the front of the house or back of the house?
caller: back of the house upstairs.
operator: okay. the back of the house, you copy, sheriff?
operator: just stay with me, okay? i want you to get as far away from that door as you can.
caller: i am, i am.
operator: i'm calling the fire department right now. use the wall for protection.
caller: what?
operator: use the wall for protection. get down and use the wall for protection.
caller: okay, hold on one second.
operator: hold on one second, okay?
caller: it's burning like crazy.
operator: is there anybody who has a ladder they can use to help you get down?
caller: there's somebody with a ladder right now.
operator: okay, stay away from where the fire is. can you get down safely?
caller: okay, i'm coming down now.
operator: okay, thank you. the fire department and the sheriffs are both en route.
caller: are there any people downstairs?
operator: confirm if everyone else from downstairs is out.
caller: there are some people downstairs. i think it's her husband. i hope my cat is too.
operator: make sure everybody is out of the house.
caller: okay, did she get down?
operator: ma'am, did you get down safely?
caller: yes, i'm down. i'm going to open the side gate.
operator: stay out front. you mentioned getting burned a little bit from your hair. just sit down and try to relax.
caller: i don't know where my cat is.
operator: don't worry about the cat. the cat will find its way out. how old are you?
caller: okay, let them know i'm the one who was on the balcony.
operator: let them know that you were the one on the balcony and that you might be slightly burned.
caller: are those the paramedics or sheriffs?
operator: ma'am, just confirm it's your house.
caller: yes.
operator: okay, stay back a little further from the house. what could be burning that badly?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: ma'am, i'm going to let you go. i'm very glad you got down safely. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: he's been stabbed really bad.
operator: what's your address, ma'am?
caller: it's 318 mccrae street.
operator: is he breathing, ma'am?
caller: no, there's blood everywhere.
operator: the person who stabbed him, is he there?
caller: no.
operator: take a deep breath, okay? how old is he?
caller: he's 26.
operator: what's your name, ma'am?
caller: mary.
operator: ma'am, i need you to answer these questions so we can get help on the way.
operator: is he completely alert? where is he injured?
caller: in his stomach. there's so much blood.
operator: is there more than one wound?
caller: i only see one wound.
operator: okay. i'm sending paramedics now. stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do.
operator: if there's anything penetrating, do not pull it out, okay?
caller: i'm not. i know that.
caller: he hit his head against the stairs, so i don't want to move him.
operator: okay. that's right. don't move him. just keep him still.
operator: don't let him have anything to eat or drink. it may make him sick or cause problems for the doctors.
operator: do you know where the person is who stabbed him?
caller: no, he's gone.
operator: is there somebody else there with you besides him?
caller: yes, my roommate.
operator: tell them to get a clean dry cloth, okay?
caller: he's gone. i don't know where he went.
operator: ma'am, i need you to get a clean dry cloth to try to stop the bleeding.
caller: okay, i'll use my shirt.
operator: press it down firmly on the wound and don't lift it up.
caller: can i tie it down tight?
operator: just press it down firmly. don't tie it.
operator: did it happen inside the house?
caller: yes, it happened inside.
operator: which one is the person that's cut? your roommate or your fiancé?
caller: my fiancé.
operator: is he still alert?
caller: i can't tell. his eyes are rolling back.
operator: keep talking to him. is he breathing?
caller: yes, he's breathing.
operator: do you see his chest going up and down?
caller: yes, i do.
operator: just confirm your address, ma'am. is there an apartment number?
caller: no, it's a house.
operator: okay. stay on the line and keep pressing on the wound. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, yeah, man, i'm up in lex there, and, uh, we were in the road. we saw a guy jump out of a cadillac.
operator: okay, he jumped out of the car, and what did he have?
caller: he was tied up.
operator: do you still see the guy?
caller: no, the cadillac drove off right after the wreck.
operator: okay, where is this guy now?
caller: he's right here in lexington at the marathon station.
operator: has anyone called the police before you?
caller: no, sir.
operator: is this a white guy or a black guy?
caller: it's a black guy, an older black guy. he just got out of the car, and he was tied up.
operator: and the car, did it go towards commerce?
caller: yes, it got on the bypass heading towards commerce.
operator: okay, did he jump out of the trunk?
caller: yes, sir. the trunk was messed up, and he jumped out of it with his hands tied.
operator: which way did the vehicle go?
caller: towards commerce, and the trunk wouldn't shut because he damaged it.
operator: can you meet with an officer and tell him what you saw, please?
caller: well, i went back to hallmark mobile park. i'm working and can't leave.
operator: sir, this sounds like an emergency. can you please meet with an officer?
caller: all right, but i'm in the car with somebody else now.
operator: who's in the car with you now?
caller: the guy who jumped out of the trunk. he got into a brown oldsmobile.
operator: do you know which way that car went?
caller: towards the police station.
operator: do you know if the driver was white or black?
caller: i don't know who was driving the cadillac initially. i didn't see if the driver was white or black.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about 10 minutes ago.
operator: okay, where exactly are you now?
caller: i went back to hallmark mobile park.
operator: okay, we will send an officer out to meet you there. can you stay there for a bit?
caller: i'll try, but i'm working.
operator: we appreciate your cooperation. thank you.
operator: clark county 999
caller: hey, how you doing? i would like to report a kidnapping and carjacking. they locked me in the trunk of a car.
operator: okay, where are you right now?
caller: at the pitman's tire shop across from carmike.
operator: can you describe what happened?
caller: i know who did it. my name is judon brooks, j-u-d-o-n, brooks, b-r-o-o-k-s.
operator: okay, can you tell me what kind of vehicle it was?
caller: it was a 75 chevrolet convertible cream color.
operator: where did this happen?
caller: it was right before i got to the tire shop. they put me in the trunk.
operator: are you safe now?
caller: yes, my friends were nearby and they helped.
operator: do you know who the people who did it were?
caller: i know one of them was jamie hood.
operator: are you at pitman's tire shop now?
caller: yes, but we're heading back there now.
operator: okay, stay there so an officer can meet you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, there's someone shooting over here on sycamore street.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 235 sycamore, timber chase.
operator: can you see anything?
caller: i just saw a guy running. he's a black guy with a white shirt.
operator: is he wearing blue shorts as well?
caller: yes, hurry up!
operator: alright, an officer is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: good morning.
operator: police, is this an emergency or can you hold?
caller: it's an emergency. i think it's an emergency.
caller: it sounds like we have gunshots off of southwest 9 in vermont.
operator: yes, we've got calls about creston. there's a fellow on creston avenue that's shooting weapons. just stay inside your house, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: hi, did you call 999?
caller: yes, my husband's on the phone. there's a guy here with an assault rifle shooting at police and aiming at our house.
operator: you said he's trying to shoot at your house?
caller: he was aimed at the house and now cars are going up and down elston.
operator: how many shots has he fired?
caller: he's fired at least 30 or 40 shots. he's out there again.
operator: can you give me a description of him?
caller: he's got blonde hair. i see him in the driveway now.
operator: all right, stay in your house and lock your doors, okay? we're on the way.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: hello, this is the police department. we got a call from this number. is everything okay?
caller: there's a wild man across the street with an assault rifle. he set off at least 30 rounds.
caller: jesus, he's aiming the gun now and he's out in front of the house.
caller: he's shooting at cars in the street.
operator: he's shooting at somebody in the cars?
caller: yeah, he just shot at a car that was driving by. he laid down the rifle. he has camouflage pants on.
operator: tell me exactly where he is and what he's doing.
caller: he's on the northeast corner of his house facing north, sitting on the back end of a white van.
operator: can you tell me the gun he has?
caller: he's got at least two guns. definitely an assault rifle of some type.
operator: all right, stay inside and lock your doors. officers are on the way.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: hello? 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need to report a neighbor firing a gun.
operator: and you saw him do this?
caller: yes, he was on his back deck, firing the gun towards his yard.
operator: can you tell me his name if you know it?
caller: his name is steve vogel.
operator: is he still out there now?
caller: jesus, yes. he's in his driveway now, wearing a black and yellow sweatshirt.
operator: all right, stay on the line with me. help is on the way.
caller: okay, thanks. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i've just been shot at.
operator: are you injured?
caller: no, but my car windows have two holes from the bullets.
operator: what kind of car are you in and where are you now?
caller: i'm in a sky blue nissan altima and i'm on broad street, near southwest 7th.
operator: we have officers on the way. just stay where you are.
caller: okay, thanks. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire right here off of broadway.
caller: broadway and 4th street. there's a girl that's unconscious.
operator: okay, broadway and 4th. are you guys in a building, somewhere on the sidewalk, where?
caller: everybody is outside.
operator: did anybody have any weapons? do we know how she went unconscious?
caller: no, there were guys and girls hitting her.
operator: okay, let me start the paramedics. hang on. don't hang up, okay?
operator: stay on the line. i'm going to get paramedics, and then i have more questions for you, okay?
caller: she's breathing. she just took a deep breath in.
operator: ma'am, is she on the sidewalk or in the street?
caller: she's on the sidewalk. she's taking deep breaths in.
caller: there's a lot of people here.
operator: do you know which people were hitting her so we can try to get them?
caller: everybody just ran off. security is trying to get people that ran off.
operator: do you have a description of those people, males, females?
caller: they were asians, asian men and women.
operator: roughly how old were they?
caller: they're probably either 23, 24.
operator: and security is trying to get those people?
caller: yes.
operator: which way did they go?
caller: they ran down 4th street towards main.
operator: do you know if any of those people used any weapons?
caller: i don't know any of these people. i just took the phone from one of her friends. she didn't know what to do. i told her to call 999, and i called for her.
operator: can you give me a description of the injured lady?
caller: she seems about 23 or 24 years old. she's wearing black pants, a black shirt, a jean jacket. she's asian, vietnamese.
operator: is she at the corner of broadway and 4th, in front of which business?
caller: right in front of the crosby.
scenario:robbery
operator: and her friends are with her?
caller: yes, her friends are with her.
operator: and what is your name?
caller: i just saw guys and girls hitting her. we just walked out of the club, and i don't know what happened. i just saw that they were hitting somebody.
operator: and the phone number you're calling me from is just one that you borrowed, right?
caller: yeah, i don't know whose phone it is. i know that it was one of her friends because they were crying that they don't know what to do.
operator: she's still there, right at broadway and 4th?
caller: she's here on the sidewalk, still unconscious, but she's breathing.
operator: the officers are already on the line with her, just to make sure that she's okay. and security is with her, correct?
caller: no, there's one standing around, but they're not with her.
operator: okay, we'll get police officers there.
caller: they didn't even know what to do.
operator: i've got an officer there now. he should be pulling up right now. do you see him at all?
caller: i see him, yeah.
operator: can you flag him down?
caller: okay, he's here.
operator: okay, does he see you guys?
caller: yes, he's just getting out of the car.
operator: okay, i'm going to go ahead and disconnect now. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire on the north side of the school, near the library. we need an ambulance up here, please.
operator: can you confirm the address of the school?
caller: it's at rappahoe high school, on the north side by the library. there's also heavy smoke in the athletic hallway.
operator: is there anyone injured?
caller: yes, there's a student down in the athletic hall. they have a bad head injury.
operator: okay, we have paramedics on the way. can you guide them to the best entrance?
caller: have them enter through the west parking lot. there's heavy smoke, but it's the closest entrance to the injured student.
operator: understood. are there any other dangers we should be aware of?
caller: yes, there are multiple shotgun shells on the ground. we might have an active shooter situation.
operator: we're informing law enforcement and school security now. is the school on lockdown?
caller: yes, the school is locked down. i'm by the glass forum area on the south side.
operator: alright, stay where you are. help is on the way. do you have any description of the shooter?
caller: it was a white male with a shotgun wearing a ball cap and cowboy boots.
operator: got it. please stay safe and provide updates if you can.
caller: understood. waiting for rescue by the glass doors on the south side.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, the address to my emergency, i live at 31 grand street, and there's a fire at somebody's house across the street.
operator: 31 grand avenue?
caller: yes, 31 grand avenue.
operator: what's the address of the house on fire?
caller: it's 28 grand avenue. please, we need somebody to come over here now. the fire is out of control.
operator: 28 grand avenue. is it an apartment or a house?
caller: it's a house, the whole house is on fire!
operator: is anyone hurt?
caller: there's an elderly man in the house! hurry up!
operator: is everyone else out of the building?
caller: oh my god, i think someone's still in there!
operator: if you're there when the fire department arrives, please let them know if anyone is still in the building, or even if you suspect somebody is in there.
caller: hurry, they need to get here fast!
operator: they're on their way. please stay calm and stay safe.
caller: oh my god, they're down the street. what are they doing? get in here!
caller: hello? operator? there are fire trucks down the street! the house is on fire, i don't know if everyone got out.
operator: we're dispatching more units. stay where you are. do not go back inside.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling to report a fire at 16 grand avenue. the smoke is really bad.
operator: do you know if anyone is inside?
caller: i'm not sure, i'm just looking from the window. i can see a lot of smoke.
operator: okay, we'll have the fire department out there as soon as possible.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire on grant avenue, and there are people trapped inside.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 28 and a half grand avenue. there's an old couple inside.
operator: what floor are they on?
caller: they're on the second floor.
operator: we have help on the way. stay on the line with me.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i live near grant avenue, and there's a house with smoke coming from it. i don't know if it's a fire, but people are screaming.
operator: do you know the exact address?
caller: it's right off grant and rose, before you get to ocean.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: 201-267-0382.
operator: we'll have police and fire out there as soon as possible.
caller: hurry, please, there's a fire at 28 and a half grant avenue. the entire house is engulfed in flames. there are people inside!
operator: hang tight, help is on the way.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a big fire on grant right now. an old man is in the house and he can't get out.
operator: we have help on the way. do you know the address?
caller: i don't know the exact address. i just drove by and saw it.
operator: okay, we'll get units to the area. thank you for calling.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my 5...
operator: do you need help? what's going on?
caller: someone stole a car from my driveway.
operator: okay, take a deep breath. can you tell me where you are?
caller: i'm on good avenue and fifth.
operator: can you describe the vehicle for me?
caller: it's a white audi.
operator: is anyone in the car?
caller: yes, my child is in the back seat.
operator: okay, we'll get help to you right away. what is your name?
caller: i can't think straight. please hurry.
operator: stay with me. do you remember the license plate number?
caller: no, i don't remember.
operator: where are you right now?
caller: walking down potter street.
operator: what's nearby? can you give me an address or landmark?
caller: i'm near mayfield school on potter.
operator: what are you wearing so the police can identify you?
caller: i have on a purple coat and boots.
operator: okay, stay where you are so the police can find you.
caller: someone just walked up to me.
operator: can you put that person on the phone?
caller: hello.
operator: hi, which direction did the vehicle go?
caller: it turned south on potter road. i saw a black man driving.
operator: okay, a black man driving a white audi heading south on potter. where are you right now?
caller: i'm at potter and mayfield with the mother.
operator: can you ask her if she knows the license plate number?
caller: she doesn't know.
operator: alright, we'll try to look that up. please stay with her until the police arrive.
caller: the police are here now.
operator: okay, i'm releasing the line. thank you. goodbye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my mom, she's crying. i think her stomach is hurting really, really bad.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 33.
operator: is she pregnant?
caller: no.
operator: has she been sick?
caller: yes, she has.
operator: sick with what?
caller: something's in her stomach. she's supposed to have a surgery.
operator: okay, is it a hernia? does she have cancer? what's in her stomach?
caller: it's a tumor.
operator: a tumor?
caller: yes.
operator: when is she supposed to have her surgery?
caller: i don't know when, but she told me to call you. she needs help and she's crying and she's on the bed.
operator: is she able to breathe okay?
caller: yes, she's breathing.
operator: can you ask her if she's taking any medication, or do you know if she is?
caller: no, she isn't. no medication.
operator: does she have high blood pressure or anything like that?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay. what's your first name?
caller: elsie.
operator: how do you spell your first name?
caller: e-l-s-i-e.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: timms. t-i-m-m-s.
operator: and how old are you?
caller: ten.
operator: is there anybody else there with you?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: is there a neighbor that can come stay with you if they have to take your mom to the hospital? or another family member?
caller: yeah, i think so.
operator: it's going to be okay. the ambulance is on their way.
caller: okay.
operator: i'm going to stay on the line with you until they get there, okay? are you a little bit scared?
caller: yes.
operator: do you have any brothers or sisters or anything?
caller: yes, but they're with my daddy.
operator: do you have your daddy's phone number?
caller: yes.
operator: what's his phone number?
caller: 817...
operator: hold on just a sec. sorry, let me get a pen. what's your auntie's number?
caller: 817-...
operator: what's her name?
caller: kathleen.
operator: where does she live?
caller: in arlington, texas.
operator: okay. i'm going to give her a call as soon as the ambulance gets there, okay? but i want to stay on the line with you because i know you're scared. the paramedics are really good and they're going to take really good care of your mom.
caller: where does your dad live?
operator: fort worth.
caller: okay.
operator: is your mama still crying?
caller: yes.
operator: it's just because it hurts, sweetie. we're going to take real, real good care of her. you did a good job calling us.
caller: okay.
operator: i just need to talk to the policeman, but i'm still here, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i'm going to have an officer come over there just to sit with you until we can get your auntie, okay? just stay with me.
caller: okay.
operator: they're outside?
caller: yes.
operator: can you unlock the door for me, sweetie?
caller: yes.
operator: i'm going to have officer davis come over there. he's real nice, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you let me call your auntie real quick and then i'll call you back?
caller: yes.
operator: i'll call you right back, all right? go ahead and hang up the phone.
caller: okay.
operator: all right, bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is an emergency. we're on a hike at lake malacca, and my kids are trapped in a snow cave.
operator: ma'am, i need you to calm down so i can help you. where exactly are you?
caller: lake malacca. we accessed it from the jenny creek trailhead.
operator: okay. how far up from the jenny creek trailhead are you?
caller: we're at the first falls, about two miles in.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: it just collapsed about three minutes ago.
operator: how many kids are trapped?
caller: my 17-year-old son and a 14-year-old neighbor boy.
operator: and it's a big snow cave that collapsed on them?
caller: yes, it's a big bunch of snow.
operator: okay, ma'am. how far into the cave were they?
caller: maybe 100 feet in.
operator: and how deep do you think the collapse is? can you tell?
caller: i can't tell from here.
operator: my partner has already started help. what's your name?
caller: joanie corbett. j-o-a-n-i-e c-o-r-b-e-t-t.
operator: is there anyone else with you that can head back down the trail to direct rescue crews?
caller: there's a gentleman here trying to help, and my neighbor, the mother of the other boy, but she's too upset.
operator: can you hear them if they yell?
caller: no, we can't hear anything. they have their cell phones, but there's no signal.
operator: stay as calm as you can. we need to keep them calm to conserve their air, okay?
caller: okay. please hurry.
operator: you're doing great. my partner has started help already. they will get to you as fast as they can.
caller: are they hiking in? they won't make it if they're hiking in.
operator: no, listen to me. my partner started help as soon as i figured out where you were. they are coming.
caller: i need to call my husband.
operator: can someone else take the phone while you call your husband?
caller: okay. hi, this is chrissy, the other mom.
operator: okay, chrissy. how old is your son?
caller: he's 14, and the other boy is 17.
operator: is it a snow cave or an ice cave?
caller: it's a snow cave. it hasn't melted yet.
operator: okay. my partner started help as soon as we got your location. is there a name for the waterfall?
caller: we don't know. it's just the first falls from the jenny creek trailhead.
operator: okay. how deep do you think the collapsed part is?
caller: it's probably 20 by 20 yards.
operator: how far into the cave was the collapse?
caller: about 10 yards in.
operator: you're doing great. we have search and rescue and the fire department on their way.
caller: thank you. please hurry.
operator: can you confirm joni's phone number?
caller: her cell number is 2006-372-3776.
operator: thank you, chrissy. please stay as calm as you can.
caller: i will. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: someone has broken into my house and they're trying to get to me, please come hurry.
operator: okay, what's your address?
caller: 1725 south o'aidst street.
operator: okay, and that's 1725 south o'lathie street?
caller: yes, okay.
operator: and is that a house or is that an apartment?
caller: house.
caller: he's here, please. he knows i'm on the phone.
operator: who is this person?
caller: his name is 12. detective hanson knows that and hurry. he knows i'm on the phone.
operator: okay, hold on. listen, listen. keep me on the phone.
caller: hello.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, emergency please.
caller: i'm here right here at mary. i don't even address. my baby mother, oh god.
operator: okay, breathe, calm down.
caller: oh, god, i can't believe this.
operator: what's the address?
caller: give me a second, please. oh, god. 8520 north west sheridan circus.
operator: sheridan circle or sherman?
caller: sherman circus, please. sherman circus, please. apartment, trio, please. oh, god.
scenario:domestic
operator: okay, what's going on there? do you need police or rescue?
caller: yeah, police. you need an ambulance. see, i'm the gun right now. well, i have the gun and he took it up off the gun, i don't know. it's never out of the gun.
operator: okay, okay. slow down and tell me what happened.
caller: oh, she was on the gun and he took it off the shelf down there. you squeeze it. i mean, he gets his mom.
operator: okay, so she's been shot?
caller: yeah, i was trying to take it by him and he was trying to take it by him. i mean, come up and forth, he kept, shot my, his mom.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: okay.
operator: okay, who shot her?
caller: i was taking a gun from him and tried to get it by him. she on the ground, please.
operator: from who?
caller: from my son. he's right here.
operator: okay, so he accidentally shot her?
caller: no, i took it by him. just accident. i never know if one was in the head and i took it. got it from him. and fucking bow i can't believe it. oh god. she's right here right now on the ground. please, can you get something?
operator: listen, listen. i have a call for dispatch, okay?
caller: yes, god, i need to believe. oh, god. somebody called. oh, god. please, she's still on the gun, please.
operator: okay, listen, we already have a call for dispatch. i need you to tell me, how old is your son?
caller: my son is three years. he would be three, two months time, please.
operator: okay. please. where is the gun right now?
caller: it's on the right there. it's on the right here. right here, no. it's the right on the couch.
operator: okay.
caller: jesus christ, god. why me put myself in this spot? oh, god. oh, nothing in my life. i never got through not like this in my life.
operator: how old is your wife?
caller: she's 34, 33. no, she's my baby mother. not my wife. baby mother, please.
operator: okay. is she awake?
caller: she's right here, now, right down. what i must do? i'm just doing nothing. i'm not sleeping like that.
operator: listen to me, i'm going to tell you what to do. is she awake?
caller: yes, she is still breathing. hello?
operator: yes, she's awake?
caller: yes, she's awake. yes, she's still awake. yes, she's still breathing, yes.
operator: she's awake and she's breathing. where is she shot?
caller: she starts right down on the back of the arm, the back. and the back on the arm, the arm, on the low back, under the arm. the back of the arm.
caller: yes, please. what i must do? talk to me. please do our guardian having god help me please.
operator: okay, we're getting rescue on the way, okay?
caller: oh no, what is? i can't believe that this is not me. this is more than i need to leave her.
operator: okay, is she completely alert?
caller: i want to see something. move or i don't move out. what i'm going to do?
operator: is she completely alert?
caller: no. all right. i don't know.
operator: is she breathing normally?
caller: she not breathing normally. she not, she not, not, do not. you're right here, right here, right here.
caller: is that, who's it? is that the police there?
operator: yes, police is here.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's my neighbor. she said someone was in the back of her house with a gun trying to kill her. she ran over here.
operator: okay, what's the address?
caller: 2842 east mount tabor circle, duluth.
operator: is someone in her house now?
caller: i don't know. she just ran over here.
operator: can you ask her if she knows who this person is and if they are still in the house?
caller: she doesn't know who it was. she's hysterical.
operator: can you ask her what the person looked like and if they are still in the house?
caller: okay, hold on. did he have a gun? yeah, she said he had a gun and tried to shoot her. what's her address? because mine is 2842.
operator: is it to the right or left of your house if you are facing it?
caller: it's to the right.
operator: can you ask her what he looked like or put her on the phone?
caller: okay, she said he had a gun and tried to shoot her. she thinks he's on the back porch.
operator: can i talk to her? i need to ask her some questions.
caller: ma'am, can you tell her what you saw?
caller: i was in the shower and the lights went out. a man came in with a hood on, and he had a knife. he covered my mouth with his hand and told me to be quiet. he had an accent and was dark-skinned.
operator: okay, what happened next?
caller: he told me to get out of the tub and tried to force me to get in the bed. i told him i had a child and money, and i would give him money to leave me alone.
operator: okay, did you have any weapons?
caller: i took my .22 and shot him as much as i could, but he kept walking. he went outside through the sliding door and i locked the door and ran to my neighbor's house. he might have taken my other gun, a .380 and a .38 special.
operator: where are your guns now?
caller: the .22 is empty and the other guns are in my nightstand next to my bed.
operator: okay, did you put the guns away after you shot him?
caller: no, i think i put the .22 on the floor inside the sliding glass door and then locked it.
operator: alright, i have officers on the way. do you need medical attention?
caller: i hurt my back when i fell. he was going to rape and kill me.
operator: okay, just stay with your neighbor until the officers arrive. make sure your cat is safe.
caller: thank you. please tell the officers not to let my cat out.
operator: the officers are outside your house now. can you step outside to talk to them?
caller: okay, but my back hurts so much. where are they?
operator: they are at your house waiting for you. they will help you.
caller: alright, i'm going outside now. please help me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i have a gun and it went off in an alley. someone just got shot. i don't even know what happened.
operator: okay. can you repeat that one more time?
caller: yes, as soon as you can.
operator: is this an apartment or a house?
caller: it's a house.
operator: what apartment number are you in?
caller: where is the person shot? oh my god. oh my god.
operator: where is the person shot?
caller: in the chest. i think she's dead. oh my god.
operator: it's a female?
caller: yes, it's a female.
operator: alright, stay on the line with me. is she inside or outside?
caller: she's inside.
operator: is it a white female or black female?
caller: she's white. i think her name is linda.
operator: alright, what's your name?
caller: my name is [caller name].
operator: and your phone number?
caller: i'm on the phone with 999. i don't know what to do!
operator: just stay on the line with me, okay? we have police and an ambulance coming.
caller: what do we do?
operator: officers are pulling up now. i'm going to transfer you over to the ambulance, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9 ems, what is the address of the emergency?
caller: somehow a gun went off and a girl was shot in the chest.
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: somehow a gun went off and the girl was shot in the chest.
operator: are you with her now?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is she?
caller: i think she's around 20.
operator: is she awake?
caller: i don't know, she's not responsive at all.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: no.
operator: is the attacker still nearby?
caller: nobody attacked her, this was an accident.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: yes.
operator: i'm sending paramedics to help you now. stay on the line, i'll tell you exactly what to do next.
caller: okay.
operator: get a clean, dry cloth or towel to stop the bleeding.
caller: i think the paramedics or police officers just got here.
operator: okay, i'll let them take over.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, we have someone shot.
operator: okay, just calm down and talk to me. did you see what happened?
caller: no, i just heard it. there's a girl who got shot.
operator: did you see anything?
caller: no, i just saw blood.
operator: what else is going on?
caller: it was an accidental discharge. she is in the house with me.
operator: we have people coming, okay? just calm down.
caller: okay.
operator: what's your name?
caller: i don't know what to tell you. my friend was messing around with a gun and it accidentally went off.
operator: okay, and you said your friend is still there?
caller: yes.
operator: what's his name?
caller: i don't want to say.
operator: okay, well, you're going to have to tell the officers when they get there. just stay on the phone with me until they arrive.
caller: okay.
operator: is she his girlfriend?
caller: i think so.
operator: what's her name?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone until the officers get there.
caller: i can't deal with this. just send an ambulance.
operator: they are on their way.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: someone got shot in the arm.
operator: where are you?
caller: herde's grove.
operator: who shot them?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: what were they shot with?
caller: an ak-74.
operator: was it a guy or a girl who got shot?
caller: both, a guy and a girl.
operator: where was the girl shot?
caller: i'm not sure, i need to check.
operator: what's her name?
caller: i don't know. i just heard about it.
operator: okay, we have officers in the area. the guy who got shot, where is he?
caller: he's outside in the front.
operator: alright, officers will make contact with you.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a gun went off.
operator: okay, can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: i'm transferring you to ems. do not hang up.
operator: 9-9-9 ems, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: did you kill her?
operator: what's the address?
caller: i don't know how it happened.
operator: is she inside?
caller: yes, she's inside.
operator: can you please tell me the address?
caller: i need someone here.
operator: we need the address to send help.
caller: alright, it's [address].
operator: help is on the way. stay on the line.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm speaking to my boyfriend as he was entering his home and i heard loud screaming and now there's dead air on the other end.
operator: and where is his address?
caller: 95 west crescent ramsey.
operator: 95 west crescent?
caller: west.
operator: and ramsey?
operator: what's his name?
caller: z-u-n-c.
caller: s-a-k.
operator: s-h-a?
caller: s-a-k as in kites.
caller: s-h.
operator: okay, i'm sorry?
caller: z as in zebra, u.n.
caller: d as in david, u.n. as in nancy.
operator: okay, ma'am. calm down. what is his phone number?
caller: do you know one?
operator: no problem.
operator: ramsey, police dispatcher.
caller: yeah, ramsey.
caller: it's paramus. how are you?
operator: go ahead.
caller: i just got a call from a lori gerbowski. i can't even say it. i'll spell it. g.e.r.d.a.s.i from whitecloth stating that she was talking to her boss and he had just gotten home, walked into his house which is in your town, and screamed, and now she has dead air. his name, his last name is d-e-a-z, as in david, u.n.s.a.k. he's at 95 west crescent street.
operator: west crescent avenue?
caller: yes, west crescent avenue.
operator: and his phone number is...
caller: and she can't get through again? it's dead air, like the phone just went dead. i'll give you her phone number off.
operator: okay.
operator: all righty? you got it.
caller: thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: are you there?
operator: 9-9-9, do you need police, fire, or ems?
caller: we have been shot at! our house is under fire. we have three children, we need someone here now!
operator: alright, ma'am. i need you to stay on the line with me. can you verify your address for me, please?
caller: 1733 pierpont.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: we do not know where this person is. they have a gun and they shot at our house.
operator: ma'am, listen to me. get on the floor. i need to get some information for the officers, okay?
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: it's my cell phone.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: jennifer griffith.
operator: tell me exactly what happened, please.
caller: we heard a loud noise, like a boom, boom, boom, and then someone shot at us.
operator: someone was inside your house?
caller: no, they're outside, but our windows have been shot through. we have our children in our room.
operator: okay, i need you to stay in the room with your children. when did this happen?
caller: it just happened. somebody needs to get here right now.
operator: jennifer, help is on the way. this isn't slowing anyone down, okay? where are the weapons now?
caller: we don't have any weapons. somebody was shooting at us from outside.
operator: do you see any weapons now? if you do not know, that's fine.
caller: my husband says he's shot.
operator: okay, i'm getting the paramedics to you now. i need you to answer these questions for your safety and the officers. you don't know where the shooter is, correct?
caller: no, we do not see a weapon or anyone outside now.
operator: are you in immediate danger?
caller: yes, i feel we are in immediate danger. we don't know where the shooter is.
operator: are you able to get yourself to safety?
caller: no, it's not safe for us to leave the house. we can't see outside right now.
operator: can you talk with me freely, jennifer?
caller: yes, i can.
operator: where exactly are you in the house? what's the best way to get to you?
caller: when you come in the front door, go left down the hallway past the bathroom. we're in the back bedroom to the left.
operator: okay, you're in the back bedroom to the left, with the door closed, correct?
caller: yes, we have the door closed.
operator: we have paramedics and officers coming to you. is anyone else in immediate danger?
caller: my husband is also on the phone with 999. we're all in the same room.
operator: tell him to disconnect. you're all together, right? is anyone else in immediate danger?
caller: yes, there are five of us. we don't know if anyone else is in danger because we don't know where the shooter is.
operator: how many people are injured?
caller: my husband is injured, he's the only one.
operator: where is the person responsible now?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: we have no idea.
operator: was your husband able to see if the suspect is white, black, or hispanic? male or female?
caller: no, he did not see.
operator: can you stay on the line with me? your husband should stay in the room.
caller: he has left the room.
operator: tell him to go back into the room and close the door. do not leave the room.
caller: he's turning on the porch light now.
operator: do you see the police? are they outside?
caller: my husband says he sees a car.
operator: the police are looking for your house. stay inside.
caller: he's wearing a black shirt and white shorts. yes, he's talking to them.
operator: okay, go ahead and speak with the police. they are inside now.
caller: this is 1733 pierpont.
operator: sir, i'm right here with you. we've gotten the call.
caller: my wife is here with our three young kids on the floor. we need help right now.
operator: sir, we're getting help to you. stay on the line, you don't have to say anything.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hold on. hold on, buddy. hold on. hold on. help him.
caller: no. if he sits down, he's going to go into shock, he's got to stand up.
caller: okay?
caller: no, he's not.
caller: is it here in the store?
caller: uh-huh. oh, i'll do it.
caller: outside?
caller: yeah.
caller: you're on?
caller: uh-huh.
caller: who are you on?
caller: okay.
caller: you're all right, buddy. you're all right.
caller: i think we need to put him in a wheelchair, okay?
caller: get a wheelchair.
operator: emergency dispatch, 999.
caller: i need an ambulance to the south side walmart immediately.
operator: what's going on?
caller: i have a man shot.
operator: okay, we've had other calls on it. we are getting an ambulance going. where is the person who was shot?
caller: he is inside the store right now.
operator: inside the doors, right inside?
caller: yes, right inside.
operator: where was he shot?
caller: outside.
caller: he was shot in the face.
operator: in the face?
caller: yes.
operator: where's the person who shot him?
caller: they drove off.
operator: do you know what kind of vehicle they drove off in?
caller: come here. what kind of vehicle? what kind of vehicle?
caller: i don't remember. relax. slow down. truck, car...
caller: it was a car. small car. small car.
operator: can you see what color the vehicle was?
caller: two men. the guy that did it?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. okay. does he know the name of the person that shot him?
caller: yes. he says it was ku yang. koo yang. and he left with another man in a vehicle.
operator: can he tell me what color the vehicle was?
caller: do you have any idea what color it was?
caller: yon, y'all. y'all is above. got more.
operator: okay. again, the ambulance is on the way already.
operator: and where on his face was he shot?
caller: he is shot in the light teeth.
caller: there's one outside?
caller: there's one outside that's apparently shot in the heart.
operator: okay, there's another person outside. was he with him?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. we're getting one more ambulance going. we have one other person there claiming it's outside who was shot in the heart.
operator: you got two shootings?
caller: two shootings.
operator: were they together or is this another person?
operator: are you still there?
operator: okay, the other person that was shot, were they together or is this somebody else unrelated?
caller: they're together.
operator: they are together?
caller: yes.
operator: and they are outside right now?
caller: yeah, i know cpr.
operator: okay, they're doing cpr? keep pressure on there. keep pressure on there.
caller: go down.
caller: the other person is outside of walmart yet. he was shot in the chest.
operator: i am still here. somebody is doing cpr on him?
caller: we just got two guys doing cpr right now.
caller: you got one in our store, one on the ground right now.
operator: okay.
operator: the one that's on the ground who was shot in the chest, is he right outside the front doors?
caller: yeah, he is. he's right in our handicapped area.
operator: okay. outside of walmart, in the handicapped area, he's on the ground. they're doing cpr on him. and the ambulances are on the way.
caller: okay, we do have an officer here.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you talk to him then, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: all right, thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: ma'am, my pickup was stolen. i had to go find it. please help us.
caller: my girlfriend is really freezing out in the cold. we can't get out of here.
operator: you can't get out of where?
caller: we can't get out. we don't know if we are...
caller: they don't speak english or anything. they don't talk to us.
operator: who?
caller: these people here.
operator: so somebody's locked you in this building?
caller: no, but we don't know. if we took the block from getting out of this building and walking, i cannot guarantee we'll make it before we freeze. she's, i guarantee she can't. she's wet herself twice, and she's frozen.
operator: sir, you're at 76th and poppleton. you don't have to walk very far to get somewhere safe, okay? it's not like you're in the middle of nowhere.
caller: yeah, but we're here, maybe a quarter mile from 75th. that's all i'm saying. can you please just send someone?
operator: no, i can't help you. you need to help yourself.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: listen here. i'm at main street in colorado springs, colorado.
operator: i'm not showing that as a valid address. can you verify that for me?
caller: main street. that is the address.
operator: what is the nearest intersection that you're by?
caller: what do you want, the phone number?
operator: okay, go ahead and give that to me.
caller: 719-39-3930
operator: okay, is that a home phone?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: okay, sir. what's going on there?
caller: i've got two people here held hostage.
operator: okay. you know what happens to people that are held hostage? it's not like in the movies. do you understand that?
caller: one of them is named danielle and her father. i'm doing this because her father raped my sister.
operator: okay.
caller: i am armed. i have a pistol, and i swear i will kill everyone if any cops come in here with guns. do you understand me?
operator: can i get your name, sir?
caller: yes, my name is john defano.
operator: john, are you in the town of security?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: okay, i'm going to transfer you to the sheriff's office. will you stay on the phone with me?
caller: yes, i will.
operator: hang on just one second.
caller: can you stay on the line with me? i'm not talking to these people anymore.
operator: sure, john. i'll stay on the line with you. hang on a second.
caller: just remember, i am armed and i will shoot.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: i have a .22 pistol.
operator: and you have two people there?
caller: yes, an 18-year-old and her father. they're duct-taped and tied up in the next room.
operator: okay, let me get you over to the county. i'll stay on the phone with you, john.
caller: all right.
operator: john, you're still there?
caller: yes, i'm still here.
operator: i have the county on the phone with us now.
caller: hi, okay, this is jennifer. what exactly is going on?
caller: i'm not talking anymore.
operator: is it okay if i tell her what's going on, john?
caller: yes, you may.
operator: he advised me that he has two people there that he's holding hostage. an 18-year-old named danielle and her father. he has them duct-taped in another room. he is armed with a .22 pistol and has said he will shoot if any officers enter the residence.
caller: i will shoot. i'm not afraid. i will shoot, and then i will kill myself because i don't care, okay? do you understand?
operator: john, i understand. can you spell your last name for us?
caller: d-e-f-a-n-o.
operator: are you injured or are they injured?
caller: the father has a wound.
operator: did you accidentally shoot him?
caller: no. i hit him with the barrel of the gun.
operator: is he severely injured?
caller: he's bleeding profusely. i need some help here because i'm going psycho right now.
operator: what can i do to help him right now?
caller: if i'm going to jail, i'm going to kill myself and them. i'm not going anywhere.
operator: why are you doing this?
caller: i'm not talking anymore. you have the address. you have everything.
operator: will you just stay on the line with me?
caller: i'm hanging up now.
operator: john, this is crystal. i'm still on the phone. will you be willing to talk to me?
caller: i'm hanging up now.
operator: you're not willing to stay on the phone with us?
caller: no, i'm not.
operator: you can't tell us more about why this happened tonight?
caller: raping a family member is not acceptable, all right?
operator: i understand.
caller: i will shoot them if i don't have help here now in the next five minutes. i swear to god, i'll shoot them. do you understand?
operator: yes, but it's not going to help the situation if you hang up.
caller: i'm hanging up the phone. do you understand?
operator: i hear you. i'd rather you didn't.
caller: you want somebody killed?
operator: no, i don't.
caller: then shut your mouth and do your job.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 530 west humbleweed road.
caller: gilbert airs on 8.5.233.
operator: 530 west humbleweed and gilbert, what's going on there?
caller: there were gunshots. my mom, my niece, and my sister are all on the floor. i think they're hurt badly.
operator: you said your mom, your sister, and your niece are on the floor?
caller: yes, my mom's boyfriend, j.t. reddy, they were fighting and screaming. i was in my room, and now they're all dead.
operator: where did you hear the gunshots from?
caller: i heard it coming from outside. the front door is open. they're all lying on the floor, and there's blood.
operator: who's been shot? do you know?
caller: my mom, lisa maderos. my sister and my niece too.
operator: your mom, your sister, and your niece have all been shot?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. we have officers on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: where is he now?
caller: i don't know. i think he's gone. the front door is open.
operator: do you know where the gun is?
caller: he has lots of guns in the garage. they were fighting, there was a lot of noise.
operator: do you think he's in the garage?
caller: i don't know where he is. i think he left.
operator: does he have a vehicle?
caller: yes, he has a black car.
operator: what kind of car is it?
caller: it's a four-door passenger car.
operator: is it registered to him?
caller: yes, it's registered to him.
operator: what is his name?
caller: j.t. reddy. jason reddy.
operator: do you know how old he is?
caller: i think he's in his 30s.
operator: where does he live?
caller: he lives with my mom here.
operator: where are you now?
caller: i'm in my room.
operator: you said the front door is open, and then what?
caller: turn right and there's a hallway. my room is down there.
operator: okay, could i have your name?
caller: brittany maderos. b-r-i-t-t-a-n-y.
operator: are you injured at all?
caller: no, i'm not injured. i was just sleeping.
operator: does he know you're in the house?
caller: yes.
operator: i want you to stay where you are. we have officers on the way. brittany, you're doing a really good job, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: do you have any idea if j.t. is still in the house?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: are you in your bedroom? is the door closed?
caller: yes, it's closed.
operator: what are you wearing?
caller: i'm wearing a red shirt and black shorts.
operator: do you know what jason was wearing?
caller: no, i don't know what he was wearing. i haven't seen him all morning.
operator: what does jason do for a living?
caller: he goes to the border with his friends, but he doesn't work. he just stays at my mom's house.
operator: does he have any weapons in the house?
caller: yes, in the garage. i think there's a gun in my mom's room too.
operator: okay, stay with me. officers are at your house. stay where you are until they come in. brittany, are you listening?
caller: yes.
operator: officers are coming into your house. do not do anything unless i tell you, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: they're coming into my room now.
operator: are you talking to officers now?
caller: yes.
operator: do you want me to hang up?
caller: i think so.
operator: okay, i'll let you talk to the officers. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance for two people, somebody's been stabbed.
operator: where do we need to send the ambulance?
caller: just come quick to 1035 north bluebonnet.
operator: okay, 1035 north bluebonnet. which city is this in?
caller: there's a lot of blood loss.
operator: who's hurt?
caller: my mom, my sister, and my boyfriend.
operator: what happened?
caller: it's kind of a long story, but i just need somebody to get here quick, please.
operator: do not hang up. hold on.
caller: oh, okay.
operator: okay, ma'am, i need you to calm down, okay? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: um...
scenario:traffic
operator: ma'am, i need you to tell me exactly what happened, okay?
caller: hello?
operator: hello? what's happening over there?
caller: uh, it already happened.
operator: what's happening? hello? what is your name, sir?
caller: i'm woozy, i'm really woozy.
operator: who's the girl? can you put her back on the line?
caller: oh, i tried. laura tried.
operator: who tried to stab you?
caller: he's... he's gone red.
operator: okay, where did he stab you?
caller: he stabbed me in the arm.
operator: hold on a second, all right? who stabbed you, sir?
caller: i fought for the knife.
operator: who stabbed you, sir? sir, who stabbed you?
caller: my sister did.
operator: where is your sister now?
caller: i don't know. i think she's on the floor.
operator: she's on the floor? how did she end up on the floor?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, ma'am, i need you to take a deep breath. tell me exactly how she ended up on the floor.
operator: okay, ma'am, what is your name?
caller: her name is amanda englehite.
operator: that's the girl's name i was just talking to?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is deandre howard.
operator: deandre, mr. howard?
caller: amanda englehite is my fiancée. we're getting married this summer.
operator: okay, and?
caller: in the backyard.
operator: uh-huh.
caller: i won't make it.
operator: you will make it, sir. help is on the way.
operator: listen, deandre, was it her sister who stabbed you?
caller: yeah.
operator: where is she right now?
caller: we fought for the knife, and i stabbed her. and she's not... she's not talking.
operator: she's not...? okay, so she stabbed you, and you stabbed her?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, are you and her the only two that are hurt?
caller: no, my dad.
operator: where is your dad?
caller: he's dead.
operator: he's dead?
caller: he's dead.
operator: okay, hold on a second. sir, i'm dying.
caller: i'm dying.
operator: okay, deandre, stay with me on the phone, all right?
caller: marlene... marlene barre...
operator: i'm so cold.
caller: i'm so cold.
operator: okay, deandre, what exactly happened? how did this start?
caller: she wrestled me for the knife, and stabbed me in my arm.
operator: uh-huh...
caller: my right side.
operator: deandre, are you still with me? hello, deandre?
caller: hello?
operator: hello?
caller: i think they're at the door.
operator: okay, go to the door. stay on the phone with me. go to the door, okay? do not hang up.
caller: okay, i'm going to the door now.
operator: okay, ma'am, are you with the police right now?
caller: i'm walking to the door.
operator: okay, where is the knife right now?
caller: i don't know.
caller: they're not here yet.
operator: i hear them. what is your name?
caller: amanda.
operator: okay, amanda, you're doing really good, all right? what's going on with deandre?
caller: he's stabbed in the arm, really bad.
operator: what's happening with him right now?
caller: he just stopped talking to me. he keeps going in and out.
operator: is he only stabbed in the arm, or is he stabbed elsewhere?
caller: he's only stabbed in the arm, i think.
operator: what's going on with your father?
caller: i think he's dead.
operator: where is he in the house?
caller: he's in the den.
operator: he's in the den with deandre?
caller: yeah.
operator: and your sister?
caller: they're all in the den.
operator: they're all in the den, okay. are you hurt at all?
caller: no.
operator: you're not hurt, okay. do you see the police?
caller: no.
operator: what's that?
caller: i don't see an ambulance.
operator: they're on the way. the police will speak to you first. the ambulance is on the way.
caller: hello?
operator: okay, ma'am, talk with the police, amanda, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my friend's mom got attacked by a bobcat!
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: we're on a dirt road off of stone ridge.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: they're bleeding all over.
operator: okay, they got attacked by a bobcat?
caller: yes, a bobcat.
operator: how many people are there?
caller: there are five of us.
operator: okay, how many people got attacked by the bobcat?
caller: two.
operator: where were they attacked at?
caller: in the arms and leg.
operator: are they bleeding heavily?
caller: yes, they're bleeding a lot.
operator: do you have a clean cloth or anything to stop the bleeding?
caller: we have a jacket.
operator: okay, use the jacket to apply pressure to the wounds. don't remove it, just keep pressing on it. is the bobcat still there?
caller: no, it ran away.
operator: okay. you're doing great. how old are you?
caller: i'm 12.
operator: are there any adults with you?
caller: yes, but she was attacked too.
operator: okay, and you have your jacket wrapped around her arm?
caller: yes, we have.
operator: is she still conscious and breathing?
caller: yes, she's conscious and breathing.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 43.
operator: how old is the other person who was attacked?
caller: she's 13.
operator: okay, and do you have something wrapped around the 13-year-old's leg?
caller: yes, we do.
operator: alright, i want you to stay where you are. can someone run to the road to guide the ambulance?
caller: yes, someone is going up to meet them.
operator: okay, just stay calm and stay with the injured. are you near a creek bed?
caller: yes, we're by a creek bed.
operator: can you see the road from where you are?
caller: no, there's a tree blocking the view.
operator: how far do you think you are from the road?
caller: not very far.
operator: is she still bleeding?
caller: yes, the cloth is soaking through.
operator: okay, i want you to keep applying pressure. are there any landmarks or signs nearby?
caller: our car is parked on stone ridge, it's tan with an american flag sticker on the back.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is lauren.
operator: okay, lauren, you're doing a great job. just stay calm. are you still with lisa, the injured adult?
caller: yes.
operator: how's lisa doing?
caller: she's scared and in pain.
operator: i know, but you're doing a great job. just keep talking to her and keep her calm. have the firemen arrived yet?
caller: we can see the fire truck now.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me until the firemen reach you.
caller: okay, we see them now.
operator: alright lauren, you did an amazing job. the firemen will take over now. stay safe, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm having problems with my 15-year-old son, sean, at 3845 westgate circle in magna.
operator: okay, that's 3845 westgate circle?
caller: yes.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: all right, what's going on?
caller: i don't know where he found it but he has his dad's gun and he's threatening us. he's saying he's going to run away.
operator: are there other weapons in the home?
caller: i thought they were all locked up, but he's telling me he found one. oh my god, he's holding it. sean, get out of your sister's room!
operator: where is he right now?
caller: he's in his sister's room with the gun.
operator: what's his name?
caller: sean, and he's leaving. he's got a big black trench coat on.
operator: how old is he?
caller: 15
operator: is he leaving the house?
caller: yes
operator: which way is he going?
caller: he's going south, he has a ski mask on, and a black outfit.
operator: do you know what kind of gun it is?
caller: it's a colt 45.
operator: that's a handgun. is he coming back towards your house?
caller: no, it looks like he's going straight and now he's heading west.
operator: alright, i'm going to transfer you to the dispatcher who will get officers over to your house, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: hi, i need you to get out here as soon as possible.
operator: i have several officers en route at this time. i'm just going to keep you on the line. did he make any threats toward you?
caller: i don't know what he's going to do. he said something about breaking a lock to the storage room. i don't know if he was serious.
operator: did he have any other weapons besides the gun?
caller: not that i know of.
operator: do you know if the gun was loaded?
caller: i have no idea.
caller: oh my god, i heard gunshots!
operator: are you and your family safe?
caller: we're inside the house.
operator: stay inside the house. do not go out there.
caller: i can see him outside shooting.
operator: stay on the phone with me, okay? officers are on their way.
caller: i'm so scared.
operator: i understand. we're getting help to you as quickly as we can. just stay on the line.
caller: i hear more gunshots.
operator: stay inside and do not approach the windows. officers are almost there.
caller: okay.
operator: is everyone in the house okay right now?
caller: yes, we're just scared.
operator: understandable. stay calm, we have officers en route. just stay on the line and keep yourself safe.
operator: alright, i'm going to go ahead and have someone come over and talk with you, okay? i'm going to disconnect the call, but someone will be over shortly to speak with you.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i wanted to report that a little girl just went into the rapids.
caller: her mom jumped in after her, but they were going down the river pretty fast and everyone's still running after them.
operator: okay, where did this happen?
caller: just at the base of briddievale falls. they're flowing down river towards non-parts.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: yep.
operator: how old is the little girl?
caller: i have no idea. she fell into the river.
caller: she was drifting down and the mom jumped in about a foot from her, but i don't know if she caught her or not. they both kept on going down the river.
operator: did they have any flotation devices or anything?
caller: no flotation, nothing.
operator: can anybody see either of them?
caller: no. people are still running after them.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, i need your help.
operator: okay, tell me where you're at.
caller: well, the thing is, i was just flying with my buddy.
operator: flying?
caller: yeah. we just went down.
operator: tell me where you were at.
caller: i don't know. we're in the middle of the woods.
operator: you need to tell me what area you were in.
caller: past 65, heading north. i think down near the river, that's all i know.
caller: he was the experienced flight.
operator: okay, listen, what's your name?
caller: my name's tom.
operator: tom what? he's hurt badly.
caller: i'm william.
operator: is the aircraft on fire?
caller: no, but it's leaking gas and he's stuck, and i cannot get him out.
operator: so you're up near goldsbury road?
caller: i’m not sure, ma'am. i'm not sure. i'm sorry.
operator: that's okay. are you anywhere near a mailbox or anything?
caller: we're in the middle of a freaking cornfield.
operator: medic standby for a medical run. probably battleground.
operator: tom, do you see a mailbox or a house anywhere around?
caller: no, i don't. i just see a big dirt clot and...
operator: okay, see if you can see a road anywhere.
caller: should i leave him? he's hurt badly.
operator: try to give me a location, tom. can you hear me?
operator: tom, is he breathing?
caller: no, i'm trying to see something.
operator: okay, that's good.
caller: yeah, he's bleeding, but i had to leave him.
operator: i understand. you're doing good. try to find help as quick as you can.
caller: all right. i'll stay on the phone with you.
operator: do you see a mailbox or a house?
caller: okay, give me a minute. i'm looking.
operator: if you see a mailbox or a house, let me know.
caller: oh my god. we're in the middle. they're in a field somewhere.
operator: tom, are you back at the plane?
caller: no, i see a farmhouse. should i go to it?
operator: if you can get to it safely, do it. we need a good address.
caller: i want to get help as quickly as we can. i'll try to get there.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: can you get there within a couple of minutes? how far does it look?
caller: like a football field away.
operator: okay, do you think you can make it?
caller: yeah, but what about him?
operator: yes, that's fine. if you can get help quicker, do it.
caller: all right, i'm going to put the phone in my pocket.
operator: okay, go ahead.
caller: help!
operator: tom, do you see a mailbox?
caller: no, i'm still going.
operator: give me a minute, okay?
operator: all units be advised, my caller is running to the nearest farmhouse to get an address.
operator: tom, you're doing good.
caller: yeah, hold on.
caller: i see a barn. is there a mailbox at the end of the road?
caller: no, i'm still getting to it.
caller: hello! i see a house.
operator: okay, is it a red barn? could it be a garage that looks like a barn?
caller: it's a red barn, hold on.
operator: tom, are you down in the river bottoms or up on the hill?
caller: i'm coming down the hill.
operator: he advising he’s coming down the hill. my complainant hears sirens approaching.
operator: tom, do you see a mailbox?
caller: no, not yet.
caller: help! i see help!
operator: tom, do you see the ambulance?
caller: no, but someone is coming.
operator: okay, what is your address?
caller: i'm on goldsbury road.
operator: do you see a mailbox nearby?
caller: no, but i’ll ask someone.
operator: okay, tell me from where you're standing, which direction?
caller: if you go to america's and come up to goldsbury road, go west.
caller: i'm at 6711 goldsbury road.
operator: okay, so east of this residence, right?
caller: yes, they're out in the field.
operator: okay, i'll disconnect now. thank you.
caller: thank you so much. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, yeah, this is nero myers. i work for the school.
operator: yes, go ahead.
caller: we, uh, had a, i think a shooting right now at the bus barn down at the high school.
operator: at where at?
caller: at, uh, argusburg.
operator: yeah, at the high school, where?
caller: uh, in the bus barn.
operator: in the bus barn?
caller: yeah.
operator: do you know who it was?
caller: no, i don't. someone came running out and said that somebody shot ed thomas.
operator: ed thomas? and they're still in the building?
caller: they're in the building?
operator: all right, we'll get someone right there.
caller: okay, all right. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my name is leah vanderholt. i'm calling from parkesburg. i may you've already had calls about this, but there's been a shooting here.
operator: yes, we've got help on the way. people are being sent.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: yes, they are. are you with the scene?
caller: i'm right across the street from here in the schneiderman home. we can see the building right now. and all we see is the police blazer. we don't see any ambulances. we don't see anything.
operator: the ambulance is on the way right now. they had a hard time getting a crew, but they are on the way. we also have paramedics that have been en route for about 10 minutes.
caller: oh, okay, and we're keeping every kid that witnessed this in this house right here.
operator: okay, what's the address of that house, leah?
caller: what's the address of this house? 507 north johnson.
operator: all right. keep them all there, and as soon as we can, it could be a little bit, but we will have an officer stop by, all right?
caller: good. thank you.
operator: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, there's been a bunch of gunshots in my house, and i think a bunch of people were shot.
operator: where at?
caller: 2112 east republican.
operator: 2112 east republican?
caller: yeah.
operator: in your house?
caller: yes, in my house.
operator: okay, stay on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: are you okay?
caller: i'm fine. i saw a bunch of people walking my friend. it looked like a drive-by or something, but then i heard a bunch of gunshots.
operator: how many people are shot?
caller: at least four or five. it’s really messed up. there are a bunch of people drunk.
operator: where are the suspects?
caller: i don't know. he was outside. i don't have any description.
operator: do you have any vehicle description?
caller: no, i don't. i've been inside.
operator: do you have roommates in your home?
caller: yes, there are six of us in total.
operator: what is your first name?
caller: there was just another gunshot. i’m hiding in the basement with two other people.
operator: okay, so you don't know what’s going on now?
caller: i can't see anything. i don't know if anybody else is talking to another operator.
operator: we have a lot of calls right now, but i'm going to keep you on the phone because you're inside the house.
caller: yes, i’m with two other people. they had nothing to do with it and just ran down here.
operator: do you know your roommates?
caller: yes, i know every single one of them.
operator: i don't want you leaving the room. you need to stay in there. hold on just one second, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you tell me exactly where in the house you are so officers can find you?
caller: there's two ways to get here. one is by the back door. if you go all the way downstairs into the basement, we're in a room there.
operator: are you in the basement, in the back of the basement?
caller: yes, in the back of the basement. it’s like a mother-in-law suite.
operator: how many of you are there?
caller: there are three of us back here in total, including two other males.
operator: so, there are three more roommates upstairs?
caller: yes, five of us were here. one isn't home. i saw one of them outside in a big fur coat.
operator: i don't want you to move. i just want you to stay where you're at.
caller: okay. i'm kind of drunk, and this is freaking me out.
operator: the other two guys are still there with you, right?
caller: yes.
operator: can you hear officers coming through?
caller: i hear them telling people to put their hands up.
operator: it's okay. they’re not going to freak out on you. stay calm.
caller: i hope they don't freak out on me. they can't see us from behind the door.
operator: is it officers you hear?
caller: sounds like it. sounds like there are other people outside the door, though.
caller: hello? i'm on the phone with the 999 operator.
operator: okay, just follow their instructions.
caller: i'm right here. i'm on the phone with 999.
operator: everyone, hands up! just follow their instructions.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: someone’s been shot at my friend's house. we were upstairs, and i heard several gunshots.
operator: what’s the address?
caller: i don't know the address. i can't look it up right now.
operator: who else is in the house with you?
caller: my girlfriend. we’re hiding in the upstairs bathroom.
operator: was the shooting in the house you're in?
caller: yes, downstairs. he tried to get into the bathroom.
operator: stay on the line with me. what is your name?
caller: my name is...
operator: what's your cell phone number?
caller: this is my girlfriend's phone.
operator: is she there with you? is she injured?
caller: yes, she is here. she is not injured.
operator: stay on the line with me. what are you hearing now?
caller: i hear police officers talking downstairs.
operator: stay on the line, okay? are you still in the bathroom upstairs?
caller: yes.
operator: is the door locked?
caller: yes.
operator: are you hearing officers telling you to come out?
caller: yes, i think so.
operator: stay on the line with me for a second.
operator: are you injured? is your girlfriend injured?
caller: no. no, she is okay.
operator: the officers are coming up there now. tell them where you are.
caller: we’re in the bathroom. the door has bullet holes. let me unlock it.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: someone is shooting people at 2112 east republican.
operator: are they inside or outside?
caller: they’re outside, on our porch.
operator: who did they shoot?
caller: i'm not sure. i just saw shots.
operator: did they drive by or walk?
caller: they were just on the porch.
operator: what's your address again?
caller: 2112 east republican.
operator: did you get a good look at the shooter?
caller: he was a white male, about six foot five.
operator: do you know his name? how old is he?
caller: late 20s, maybe a little shorter than 6'5.
operator: what was he wearing?
caller: regular clothes, like jeans and a shirt.
operator: did you see what color shirt?
caller: i don't remember. not wearing a hat.
operator: did he come in a vehicle?
caller: probably, but i didn’t see it.
operator: thank you. we have officers responding.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: there was a bunch of fireworks or gunshots, and there are people hurt.
operator: what’s the address?
caller: 2112 east republican.
operator: is that a house or apartment?
caller: it’s a house.
operator: and someone is shot?
caller: yes.
operator: do you see anyone injured?
caller: yes, there are males and females injured.
operator: is the person who did the shooting still there?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, we have responders on the way.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we got someone else over here. someone's been shot.
operator: is someone in need of medics?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i’m getting the medics on the line.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: the police just got here. we have one person at our doorstep who has been shot.
operator: what is your address?
caller: 2112 east republican.
operator: do you see the medics?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me.
caller: the shooter might have shot himself.
operator: do you see the medics anywhere?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: okay, they're on the way.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: i need the police. there are shots fired across the street from me.
operator: do you see someone with a gun?
caller: no, i can hear gunshots. there was a party. i see someone down in the yard.
operator: what color is the house across the street?
caller: it’s blue.
operator: one of our cars just pulled up.
caller: there is a man down in the yard.
operator: did you get a description of the shooter?
caller: no, i heard a shotgun blast, then saw the man in the yard.
operator: i will let the officers know.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: there are shots fired on east republican. someone is down on the porch.
operator: are they still firing shots?
caller: yes.
operator: did you see who's shooting?
caller: no.
operator: okay, we have police in the area.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what's your emergency?
caller: i've been hearing gunshots all morning, and there are people hurt.
operator: do you know how many people have been shot?
caller: i think six people might have been shot.
operator: did you hear the shooter?
caller: yes, i could hear the shots even more after the initial one.
operator: we have responders on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, 8011 hollyway drive.
operator: what's wrong? are you there?
caller: there's a guy here with a gun.
operator: can you confirm the address? hollyway drive isn't showing 8011.
caller: it's 2601 holloway drive, between holloway and plant side.
operator: got it. what's happening there?
caller: there's a guy with a gun. he's wearing black and white plaid pants and a white shirt or black t-shirt.
operator: is he inside the building?
caller: no, he's walking around in the parking lot.
operator: what business is this?
caller: linden millwork. i ran into their shop across the street.
operator: did he do anything or just walking around with a gun?
caller: he was looking for someone and pulled a gun from his pocket.
operator: is he a black male, white male, hispanic?
caller: he's a white guy, maybe in his early 20s.
operator: all right, let me get someone started out there. hang on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 2360 ampire drive. there's a man on the property with a gun.
operator: and that's where the person is?
caller: yes, he's looking for a girl he had trouble with.
operator: what's the name of the business?
caller: linden millwork.
operator: can you provide a description of him?
caller: he's 5'5" or 5'6" with a crew cut, wearing a black shirt and plaid shorts.
operator: we've got officers on the way. anything else you can tell me?
caller: he's kind of a round-face fellow carrying a gun.
operator: all right, we'll get someone out there. what's your name?
caller: bob capitello, i own the business.
operator: okay, stay on the line. we'll get help to you.
caller: he just shot somebody!
operator: did anyone get hit?
caller: i don't think so. he fired but missed.
operator: all right, they're on their way. stay safe and keep down.
caller: he's now inside the building!
scenario:domestic
operator: we'll get officers there as fast as we can. where inside is he?
caller: in the main office at the front of the building.
operator: got it. officers are close. stay on the line with me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at 2360 ampire drive. the shooter is my cousin's ex-boyfriend.
operator: what is your name?
caller: brian mcdonald.
operator: okay, brian. officers are en route. can you stay on the phone and keep safe?
caller: okay, he's wearing a black shirt and blue plaid shorts. he's in the office.
operator: got it. can you get to a safe place?
caller: i'm outside, not going back in.
operator: stay where you are. officers are arriving.
caller: i see them, they're here. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: the paramedics is the address of your emergency.
operator: go ahead, honey. go ahead and tell the lady what's going on, okay?
caller: hello?
operator: hello?
caller: 14863.
operator: okay, tell me the number one more time.
caller: 1463.
operator: 1463, what's the street name?
caller: westwood street.
operator: weak street?
caller: uh-huh.
operator: how do you spell your street name?
caller: um, w-h-e-t.
operator: week street in kuna?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, what's your telephone number?
caller: mom. do you know the phone number?
caller: um, i don't know.
operator: okay. what's going on there?
caller: my mom, she's sick and she can't wake up.
operator: she can't wake up?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay. how old's your mom? do you know if she's, like, in her 30s or if she's older than that?
caller: i don't know.
operator: you don't know?
caller: mm-mm.
operator: okay. hold on just one second, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: okay. is your mom awake?
caller: a sleep.
operator: she's asleep? are her eyes closed?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. is she breathing?
caller: yeah.
operator: she's breathing?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay. i'm going to ask you a couple more questions, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i just want you to tell me, answer them as best as you can, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: so when your mom, when she's breathing, is her breathing like she normally would breathe?
caller: yeah, mostly.
operator: mostly? does it sound different than normal?
caller: no, just like she always breathes.
operator: sounds like she always breathes?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, how old are you?
caller: six.
operator: six?
caller: yeah.
operator: oh, cool. okay. is she still asleep right now?
caller: yeah.
operator: yeah? okay. well, i've got the paramedics coming, so i'm going to stay on the line with you until they get there, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: so you can tell me what's going on.
caller: okay. my sister's asleep, and she's just like that.
operator: so how old's your sister?
caller: um, my dad is paul rich.
operator: your dad is paul rich?
caller: yep.
operator: okay. do you know your dad's phone number?
caller: he doesn't live here, but.
caller: but i don't know.
operator: you don't know?
caller: uh-uh.
operator: okay. i'm just going to keep you on the phone. can you run and unlock the front door?
caller: yes.
operator: yeah? okay, go do that. can you take the phone with you?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. i can hear the phone. is there, or is there a policeman out there?
caller: no, but i can hear the siren.
operator: okay, there's a policeman coming, too, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: all right, so where are you right now? are you still at the front door or are you with your mom again?
caller: i'm sitting right by the blinds looking out.
operator: okay. do you see, you said you're where? are you by the living room so you can look out?
caller: i'm right by the blinds. i can see out and the ambulance is just not here yet.
operator: okay, can you go open the door and talk to them?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: tell me right when they're with you, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: can i hear you? and i see the cop.
operator: you see the cop?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, do they see you yet?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, i'll let you go, okay?
caller: okay, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: let me want that one.
operator: i'm sorry, can you repeat that? what's the emergency?
caller: the top, i'm sorry, i'm going to be.
operator: what is it? where are you located?
caller: oh my name?
caller: oh my god, come on.
operator: no, i need your address. where are you?
caller: huh? you need the address.
caller: 449.
caller: oh my god, the apartment.
caller: oh my god.
operator: what apartment? what apartment number?
operator: what's the name of the apartment complex?
caller: okay.
operator: and what's on fire?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, something in the other apartment?
caller: no.
operator: alright, i need you to get everybody out. get your neighbors out also, okay?
caller: i can't do that. i can't get in there.
operator: i need you to get everybody out of the apartment.
caller: i can't get in there, i can't breathe.
operator: who's in the apartment?
caller: my daughter, my kids.
operator: is the door locked?
caller: what?
operator: listen, i need you to get out of there.
caller: i don't know. i don't know.
caller: god!
caller: how?
caller: you know?
caller: the whole time i've got my kid, i've got a little girl!
caller: oh my god!
caller: oh my god! oh my god!
caller: what's the other else in here?
caller: i'm in this one.
caller: oh my god!
caller: oh my god!
caller: i'm going to get me.
caller: i can't understand, i'm thinking a lot.
caller: you know?
caller: oh, do you know?
caller: i don't know if you're talking to me.
caller: wait, what is it?
caller: i don't know.
caller: i don't know why i can't get me.
caller: are you kidding me?
caller: oh my god!
caller: oh my god!
caller: yeah, should i get it?
caller: i can get it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh my god, i just witnessed a vehicle accident on the northbound 94 freeway.
operator: okay, where exactly on northbound 94?
caller: right before the caledonia exit, just south of the 27th street exit.
operator: it looked like a big rig versus an auto?
caller: yes, that's right.
operator: okay, we'll get emergency services out there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: christine county 999, where is your emergency?
caller: there's a horrible accident on 7-mile fare and highway 94.
operator: okay, and what's going on there?
caller: a semi just hit two cars. they're in the ditch, right at the entrance of 7-mile fare and highway 94.
operator: is it actually up on the interstate or down on the frontage road?
caller: no, it's still on the interstate.
operator: okay, do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: i can't tell. i'm far away from the accident. i just saw it happen.
operator: were they headed southbound or northbound?
caller: southbound.
operator: okay, and you said it was between a semi and two cars?
caller: yes, that's right. the cars are in the ditch and the semi is still on the interstate.
operator: okay. we'll get emergency services out there.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there was an accident. three cars crashed into each other, just before the 7-mile exit.
operator: are you on the frontage road or the interstate?
caller: it's on the east side of the frontage road just before 7-mile fare.
operator: so you're on the east side of the freeway or on the west frontage road?
caller: the accident was on the east side.
operator: do you know if anyone is hurt?
caller: we don't know. we couldn't stop. we were in ongoing traffic and just saw it happen.
operator: okay, but it happened on the interstate?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: alright, we'll get emergency services out there.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, there's an accident on 7-mile road south.
operator: do you know if anyone is hurt?
caller: it looks like two or three cars are totaled. people were getting out to check, but i don't know.
operator: okay, we'll get emergency services out there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling to report an accident on 94 just south of the 7-mile fare.
operator: did you witness it, ma'am?
caller: no, i did not witness it.
operator: do you know how many people are injured or anything like that?
caller: i don't, but it looks like there are about four cars, and a semi was pulled over.
operator: okay. we're sending someone to help them right now.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm heading northbound on 94, and there's two cars off the road just at the 7-mile exit.
operator: are they still up on the freeway, or did they go off to the side of the road?
caller: they're off the road, but there's debris in the middle lane of the freeway.
operator: ma'am, did the cars go down off to the right by the frontage road?
caller: two of the cars are sitting off the shoulder. some other cars are parked along the side.
operator: okay, we have help on the way. did you witness it, ma'am?
caller: no.
operator: alright, we have help coming. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, this is james, a pharmacist with the walgreens on towersville road and cincinnati 8th road, and we just got robbed.
operator: okay, what do they look like?
caller: we'll have it all on video camera. gentleman about 6'2, short hair, white glasses, in gray sweatpants, i think a brown shirt.
operator: what kind of shirt, brown shirt?
caller: i think, yeah.
operator: sweatpants?
caller: he's still in the store.
operator: he's still in the store?
caller: yeah, he just cleared out all of my oxycontin and morphine.
operator: how long ago?
caller: just now.
operator: and he's still inside?
caller: i'm thinking he's still in the store. he shouldn't be out by now.
operator: did he have a gun or anything?
caller: i don't really know. it might not have been real, but he jumped over the counter and i wasn't going to argue.
operator: okay, why do you think he's still in the store?
caller: because he just jumped back over the counter.
operator: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: hi, this is the neighborville police and fire department. did you call 999?
caller: mike's blue drove. we got a bleeder.
operator: okay, i'm sorry. you have what?
caller: mike's blue drowman in naperville, illinois. we got a bleeder.
operator: okay, we have the fire department on the way. i think he got stabbed. is that correct?
caller: yes, i think he got stabbed. i'm not sure.
operator: okay, you think he got stabbed. did you say he got stabbed?
caller: yes, he's stabbed right now.
operator: okay. where is the person who stabbed him?
caller: he got stabbed right to the right of the heart.
operator: okay. is the person who stabbed him still there?
caller: i do not know.
operator: alright, the paramedics and police are on the way. is the person who stabbed him still nearby?
caller: no, he's out. he left. i don't know.
operator: okay. we have the paramedics on the way. hang tight.
caller: alright. thanks. bye.
operator: where is the emergency located?
scenario:domestic
caller: frankie's bar. we need an ambulance.
operator: okay, we have them on the way. can you tell me what happened?
caller: somebody got pushed into somebody and there's blood everywhere. some guy's holding his wrist. i think he's bleeding out.
operator: okay. is there someone with him?
caller: uh, there's people, yeah, there's people all around him upstairs, but we need somebody. hold on a second.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, police.
operator: where do you need the police?
caller: i want to tell you what's happening first.
caller: i just killed my wife.
operator: i need to know where you are. where do you need the police?
caller: oh, i'm at 187 gall drive.
operator: 187 gold drive. is this a house or an apartment?
caller: that's a trailer.
operator: stay on the line, one moment for the illyria police.
caller: i'm not staying long, so...
operator: please stay on the line for the illyria police. you're calling from 309-5069, correct?
caller: yep.
operator: illyria police department.
caller: hello?
operator: yes, illyria police department.
caller: i just...
operator: your phone is cutting out. i'm only hearing about every second word. what's going on?
caller: i don't know.
caller: hello?
operator: illyria police department.
caller: hello? let me call you back.
operator: you have a 999 emergency.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: ma'am, emergency at 5801 eagle drive.
operator: i'm trying to get an ambulance to you. hang on a minute. what's going on, ma'am?
caller: i don't have a gun.
operator: what's the address again?
caller: 6901 call street, linda vista, and willowbrook.
operator: attention, 901 in medical emergency. it may be a possible stabbing. 5801 eagle drive, box c-38.
caller: can't me a car plant?
caller: oh, my god. oh, my god. oh, my god.
caller: 5801 eagle drive. what's therapy on the phone?
operator: hold on. you said your child has been stabbed?
caller: oh, my god, rick. can you hear?
operator: ma'am, i need you to calm down and talk to me, okay? please.
caller: 5801 eagle. 303 cold.
operator: ma'am, listen to me.
caller: yes, yes.
operator: i need you to talk to me. i can't understand you. you're going to have to slow down, calm down, and talk to me.
caller: they're dying. what is going on?
caller: somebody screamed. it was freaking me out. my little boys were sleeping. somebody came in.
caller: stabbed me and my baby. i woke up and was fighting.
caller: he ran out. my babies are dying. they're dead. oh, my god!
operator: ma'am, stay on the phone, please.
caller: oh, my god. oh, my god. oh, my god.
operator: ma'am, who's there with you? is there anybody in the house besides you and your children?
caller: my husband. he just ran downstairs. he's helping me but he's done.
operator: okay. how many little boys? is it two boys?
caller: i love them. they're too!
operator: okay, listen to me, calm down.
caller: 5801 eagle drive. when are they going to be here?
operator: ma'am, they're on their way.
caller: ma'am, how old are your boys?
caller: what?
operator: how old are your boys?
caller: oh, my god. oh, my god.
caller: did you name dahlie?
caller: yes.
caller: your husband's name dan?
caller: yes, please.
caller: holy god, they're taken forever.
operator: did nobody in your head?
caller: there was. you don't know who did this? they were on the ground, i was fighting.
caller: my baby, oh, my god. they left the knife. there's a knife.
operator: don't touch anything.
caller: oh, he caught him. who's out there? is anybody out there?
operator: okay, ma'am, listen. there's a police officer at your front door. is your front door unlocked?
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: hurry, please.
operator: okay, you need to let the officers in the front door, okay?
caller: what?
operator: you need to let the police officers in the front door.
caller: i've already picked up the knife.
operator: it's all right. let the officers in.
caller: what if we got in the press, baby?
operator: ma'am, hang on a second.
caller: nobody walked in here and did it, then. there's nothing cut.
caller: ma'am, is the police officer there?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, go talk to him, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just broke into our house. we're all alone, please help us.
operator: is somebody in the house now?
caller: i don't know.
caller: please help us. my brother's five, please help us, please.
operator: hold on one second, okay? i've got officers on the way, okay?
caller: i'm scared. please help us.
operator: where are your mother and father?
caller: my mom is working, my dad... please help.
operator: how old is your brother?
caller: five, please help us.
operator: i have officers on the way. i'm going to stay on the phone with you, okay?
caller: okay, please do something.
caller: i'm in the closet.
operator: is your brother in the closet with you?
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: we ran into the closet as soon as we heard something.
operator: did they break the window or the door?
caller: i don't know. i just heard a door. then i said, 'raymond, run,' and we ran into the closet. i turned on the alarm and called.
caller: are they almost here?
operator: yeah, they're driving to you now. is it a house or apartment?
caller: it's a big two-story house. the alarm's going off; they should hear it.
caller: i don't know if they broke something, but i heard a loud noise so we ran.
caller: i'm scared. are the police here yet?
operator: i'm here, ma'am. i'll tell you as soon as they arrive. stay on the line with me.
caller: okay, please just tell us because i don't want to come out.
operator: i'll let you know. the alarm's going off, so the police should be here soon.
caller: okay, what do i do?
operator: hold on one second, okay? you can go to the door because they're out there now.
caller: what if he's still out there?
operator: do you hear knocking on the door?
caller: no, we're in the back closet.
operator: in the back closet at the very back of the house?
caller: no, we're in the front of the house.
caller: okay, i just heard knocking.
operator: go ahead and open the door. i'll stay on the phone with you.
caller: okay, hold my hand. should we stay in the closet?
operator: yes, stay in the closet. go back in the closet.
caller: i heard the doorbell ring.
operator: are you back in the closet now?
caller: yes.
operator: they're going to check around the house first. if you hear someone coming in, it's probably the police, okay?
caller: okay, i hear them walking.
operator: you can go to the front door now; they've checked everything. i'll stay on the phone until you make contact with the officer.
caller: okay, i'm going to the front door.
caller: hi.
caller: something broke.
operator: okay. are you guys okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: counselor, no one here.
operator: yes, sir.
caller: comey's middle school, we have a student with a gun.
operator: can you help us out, please?
caller: we'll call the local police also.
operator: you're closest to us.
caller: call us middle school, mr. patrick.
operator: pardon me? you said there's a student with a gun at the school?
caller: yes, he's at the entrance of the school.
operator: what is he wearing?
caller: uh, he is wearing...
operator: make sure you secure the entrance of the school.
caller: this is the assistant principal at comey's middle school.
operator: okay, and what is the student wearing, ma'am?
caller: red over jeans, red shirt, and he's busy.
operator: red over jeans?
caller: uh-huh. kind of general school attire, but he's got a gun.
operator: did he point the gun at anybody?
caller: yes, he's got it right here on school property.
operator: okay, thank you, ma'am.
caller: at the entrance of the school, in the hallway, if you walk into the school where the flags are, inside the hallway.
operator: so he's inside the school right now?
caller: yes, as you walk in.
operator: i am listening. i'm also talking to a colleague.
caller: we're calling you because you're closer.
operator: he's inside the school, walking towards some flags?
caller: yes, he has a gun in his clutch.
operator: is the school on lockdown, ma'am?
caller: yes, we are in lockdown.
operator: okay, hold on the phone.
caller: i'm in the front office.
operator: front office? and you can open the window to flag us?
caller: yes.
operator: can i have your name again?
caller: petro. h-a-t-c-h-e-r.
operator: as you walk in, you can see me by the window near the flags.
caller: but don't rush in; he still has a gun.
operator: what color is the gun?
caller: it's dark, black.
operator: where is he right now?
caller: at the entrance of the school, same place.
operator: okay, i'll notify the officers not to charge the front door.
caller: police are here already, but please don't come in.
operator: so there is an officer there?
caller: yes, but don't come in. he has a gun.
operator: alright, i've got units aware. police are here.
caller: there's a child with a gun. tell other parents too.
operator: who are you talking to, ma'am?
caller: get out of the way!
operator: ma'am, who?
caller: he's drawing the gun.
operator: okay, put it down.
caller: he's drawing the gun.
operator: put it down now.
caller: he's drawing the gun.
operator: put it on the floor.
caller: should i stay on the phone now?
operator: put it down on the floor.
caller: he's drawing the gun. be careful.
operator: ma'am?
caller: he's got the gun.
operator: lock the door.
caller: she's saying she's willing to die. be careful.
operator: lock the door.
caller: he's at the entrance of the school.
operator: ma'am, i need everyone to leave the front office now.
caller: can i hang up?
operator: yes, lock the door.
caller: police are out there, but he has the gun in the hallway.
operator: i understand, we're sending officers.
caller: 6779, they're shooting!
operator: ma'am, i need you to leave the building already.
caller: he's going to fire!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, 10, he's running from argonne, 1522 argonne running back towards you guys.
operator: where exactly is he now?
caller: he was at a house, 1522 argonne. unknown location right now. he had his back towards me. unable to tell if he had a weapon or not.
operator: do not pursue him by yourself. set up a perimeter.
caller: roger that. he's cutting through the wood line, heading back towards the road that leads to argonne.
operator: understood. keep the perimeter contained. a k9 unit should be arriving shortly.
caller: copy, i can't confirm if he has a weapon, only saw his back.
operator: we have officers behind the residence at 1522 argonne. what do you see?
caller: shots fired! officer down, officer down!
operator: officer down at 1522 argonne. we need all available units here, asap.
caller: we can't get to him. we don't know where the suspect is.
operator: alright, i need someone on foot. fire and ems are on standby.
caller: we need a medic. officer has a shotgun wound.
operator: medics are en route. what's the officer's location?
caller: he's at 1522 argonne. what about the suspect?
operator: move the officer to a safe location. suspect last seen on argonne moving towards ruby.
caller: he's back on argonne, heading towards ruby.
caller: we're taking heavy fire. we need reinforcements.
operator: units, assist with heavy fire at 1509 argonne. suspect is there.
caller: we need more units at 1509 argonne.
operator: ems, approach on ruby road to argonne.
caller: medics, we have a wounded officer here at the bottom of the hill.
operator: units, hold your positions. ems is on the way.
caller: we have civilians assisting with the officer but they are limited.
operator: medics, enter from ruby road to argonne. move cautiously.
caller: suspect is still behind 1509 argonne. we are holding perimeter.
operator: units, reinforce perimeter at 1509 argonne. suspect is behind the house.
caller: we need ems at ruby and amber.
operator: ems, proceed to ruby and amber.
caller: we have detained two in front of 1509 and a vehicle attempting to leave.
operator: confirm the vehicle and detain all occupants. suspect could still be inside.
caller: suspect last seen in the back room of 1509 argonne.
operator: all units, maintain cover and hold perimeter. await further orders.
caller: we need medics for a male with shotgun wound to the leg.
operator: medics, proceed to ruby and argonne.
caller: we're evacuating nearby houses.
operator: all units, assist with evacuation while maintaining perimeter at 1509 argonne.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, my father is stuck up in the attic. he's 79 years old.
operator: why is he in the attic?
caller: he's trying to fix something, but it's really hot up there. he went up about 50 feet. it's just me and my mother here, and we can't get him to come down. can you please send someone to help?
operator: okay, but this does not sound like a life-threatening emergency. if he wants to be in the attic, the police can't make him come down. is he capable of getting down himself?
caller: it's hot up there, and i'm worried if he gets stuck, it could become dangerous. i'm just trying to prevent that.
operator: does he have any mental conditions that would prevent him from making a sound decision?
caller: well, he's very stubborn.
operator: alright, but this still does not qualify as a life-threatening emergency. what is your name?
scenario:domestic
caller: i'm going to call the police department directly. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. my id is 4104.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my husband is up in the attic, and he's not responding.
operator: what's your address?
caller: 601 martin street. he's been up there for about an hour.
operator: how old is your husband?
caller: he's 79. we tried to get him not to go up there.
operator: does he have any medical conditions?
caller: no, but he's not responding when we call him.
operator: okay, we'll send someone over. don't hang up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 1110 felton farm road.
operator: felton farm road? what's the problem, ma'am?
caller: our little boy stopped breathing.
operator: is he breathing now?
caller: no, he's not.
operator: okay, do you want to do cpr? do you know how to do it?
caller: hold on just a minute.
caller: yes.
operator: does she know how to do cpr, sir?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, how old is the child?
caller: he's 13.
operator: okay, does he have any kind of medical problems?
caller: no.
operator: what was happening before he stopped breathing?
caller: hey, come on.
caller: he's coming?
operator: okay, where are y'all at, sir? are y'all at the house?
operator: sir?
operator: hello?
operator: sir?
caller: yeah.
operator: are y'all at the house?
caller: yes, we are.
operator: okay, what was he doing?
caller: around the back.
operator: you're around the back?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, we have everybody on the way to you, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: are y'all doing cpr still?
caller: we're going to go back.
caller: yeah, i'm going back to it.
operator: you're going back. okay.
operator: are y'all going to take turns?
caller: three turns.
caller: i have them on the way.
caller: ma'am, okay thank you.
operator: what was he doing before this happened, ma'am?
operator: hello?
operator: i can't tell if they hung up or put me on hold.
operator: i don't hear anything. hello?
caller: i muted it.
caller: i can hear them talking. they're taking turns down there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: mary. car, river. my car is in the river.
operator: ma'am, hold on.
operator: ma'am, i can't understand you.
operator: what language do you speak?
caller: river.
operator: ma'am, what language do you speak?
caller: sorry, my english, no.
operator: okay, what language do you speak? i can get a translator, but i need to know what language.
caller: punjabi. punjabi.
operator: okay, hold on.
operator: thank you very much for calling. this is robert speaking. i need a punjabi translator, please.
caller: my car, river. my car, river.
operator: ma'am, hold on. i'm getting you a translator, okay?
caller: my car, river.
operator: your car is in the river?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know what street you're on?
caller: my car, river.
operator: do you know what street you're on?
caller: center, never.
operator: are you still in your vehicle or have you exited?
caller: no, only car. no, in the car.
operator: okay, ma'am, hold on.
operator: hello? can you ask her what her emergency is?
caller: my car, river.
operator: how did it happen?
caller: car, river. water.
operator: okay, does she know where she's at?
caller: sacramento. coming to sacramento.
operator: does she know what road she's on?
caller: woodland. woodland to sacramento.
operator: what kind of car is she in?
caller: camry. black color.
operator: okay. we have someone on their way.
caller: should i open the window?
operator: did she get out of the vehicle?
caller: no, windows are all closed.
operator: did she know she was driving on old river road?
caller: yes, old river road.
operator: should she break the glass and come out?
operator: i'm going to connect her with the fire department.
operator: ma'am, hold on just one moment.
operator: hello, chp here. i have a woman involved in a vehicle accident. we're having a bit of a language barrier. she was on old river road, heading from woodland to sacramento.
operator: her cell phone is putting her near 20330 old river road.
operator: she mentioned the car is partially in the water, and she can't get out.
operator: she speaks punjabi and is the only one in the vehicle.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: sandy hook school. i think there's somebody shooting in here.
operator: okay. what makes you think that?
caller: because somebody's got a gun. i saw a glimpse of somebody running down the hallway.
operator: alright, where are you in the school right now?
caller: i'm down the corridor.
operator: i want you to take cover and stay on the line. what about the students in the front of the building?
caller: everything's locked up as far as i know. i'm not in the front.
operator: did you see anything out the window?
caller: no, it's still going on. i keep hearing shooting.
operator: okay, i don't want you to go over there. i want to know what's happening with the students along the front corridor.
caller: i'm not in the front. i'm actually in another part of the school.
operator: do you see or hear anything more at this time?
caller: i keep hearing popping sounds.
operator: alright, stay with me. who am i speaking with?
caller: rick storm.
operator: rick, what's your position at the school?
caller: i'm acting head custodian today.
operator: rick, are all the doors locked and are classrooms secure?
caller: yes, all the rooms are locked.
operator: did you see anything before this started?
caller: no, but the gym teacher told me he saw a shadow past the gym.
operator: was this shadow inside or outside?
caller: outside.
operator: are there any injuries at this time?
caller: i don't know of any injuries right now.
operator: alright, rick, i'm going to keep you on the line. are you still hearing shooting?
caller: it's silent now.
operator: okay, stay where you are. help is on the way. can you give me an update on your surroundings in a few seconds?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is the state police. i got a victim from sandy hook school. she’s been shot in the foot.
operator: where is she located?
caller: room number one, near the playground.
operator: how close are you to arriving on scene?
caller: we're very close.
operator: alright, thanks. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my friend just texted me. she's at sandy hook elementary. there’s a shooting.
operator: okay, we have officers on scene. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is brosey from newtown. do you know what's happening?
operator: yes, we’re aware. there’s an active shooter. we have help on the way.
caller: thanks.
operator: rick, are you still with me?
caller: yes, i’m here.
operator: alright, what do you see now?
caller: i'm in the corridor. i'm not seeing anybody, but i hear talking.
operator: stay on the line and stay safe. let the officers know you’re on the phone with 9-9-9.
caller: i will.
operator: alright, rick, i'm going to keep you with me. do you hear any more shooting?
caller: not right now.
operator: okay. hang tight, help is very close.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: sandy hook school. my friend just texted me. there’s a shooter.
operator: we have responders on scene now. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know what happened.
operator: what is your name?
caller: i'm down, what do i do?
operator: what's wrong? can you tell me what's going on?
caller: you know what, i just killed all these people, and you don't know why.
operator: you killed who? can you tell me more?
caller: you know what, i'm trying to get him.
caller: you stupid bitch.
caller: i'm calling you and i'm telling you.
operator: you're not stupid. can you tell me where you are?
caller: i just told you. they are here with me.
caller: i'm trying to stop this.
caller: people are police. it's over.
caller: and my way up here already.
caller: sir, you're talking fast.
caller: please don't let me kill myself.
operator: sir, i'm here to help. tell me where you are.
caller: i will come out if i know the police are not there.
caller: i'm going to kill myself.
operator: please don't. we can work this out. just tell me where you are.
caller: i'm going out there with guns.
operator: just put the gun down, and tell me what you want me to do.
caller: i'm not playing around. if they do anything, i'm going to kill myself.
operator: okay, let me know you're coming out, and i'll tell them.
caller: just make sure they don't kill me.
operator: sir, come out slowly with your hands up.
caller: i'm going out with the gun on my chin. i won't do anything.
operator: just come out with your hands up and nothing in them. they have been notified you're coming out.
caller: i'm coming out now.
operator: you do not need to take your clothes off.
caller: i just killed all these people. i'm done.
operator: sir, you're coming out now, right?
caller: yes, i'm trying. please don't let me kill myself.
operator: put the gun down and walk to the front door.
caller: okay, i'm on my way.
operator: stay on the phone with me.
caller: i'm in compliance.
operator: just stay right there. they'll let you know when to move.
caller: if i see police, i'm going to kill myself. let me know now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, how you doing? i'd like to report a double murder in cambridge arms.
operator: okay, do you know the address?
caller: yeah, hold on... it's 28c. 28 cambridge arms.
operator: can you tell me what happened?
caller: i walked through the backyard and saw glass shattered. i went inside and saw a woman lying there lifeless. i walked in and saw another person lying on the kitchen floor, looked like they were shot in the head.
operator: are you still there?
caller: yeah, i'm outside. i live in cambridge arms too. i was looking for my debit card.
operator: do you want to remain anonymous?
caller: yeah, i would like to remain anonymous.
operator: okay, can you describe what you saw again?
caller: i lost my debit card, and while looking for it, i saw glass shattered on the porch. i walked in and saw blood everywhere. the woman was on a mattress, not moving. the man was in the kitchen, looked like he was shot in the head.
operator: are you still on the scene?
caller: yeah, but i'm about to leave. do you think i should stay?
operator: if you want to speak with the officers, it might help. but you can remain anonymous if you prefer.
caller: alright, i'll wait then.
operator: can you describe the victims for me?
caller: the man is a black male, about 30-33 years old. the woman is a black female, i don't know her age. they were both dead.
operator: do you know their names?
caller: no, i don't know their names, i just talked to them earlier today.
operator: okay, and you saw officers arriving?
caller: yeah, they just passed me. should i flag them down?
operator: yes, if you could let them know you made the call.
caller: alright, hold on. sir, sir, right here!
operator: i'm still here.
caller: okay, they see me. i'm going to talk to them.
operator: okay, thank you for your help. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, the corner of sycamore and bradshaw.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: a man's on the ground, and i didn't go over and check him.
operator: a male is on the ground?
caller: yes.
operator: is he awake? can you tell?
caller: no, it doesn't look like he's moving.
operator: okay, what's your last name?
caller: hutzpeth.
operator: and your first name?
caller: willie.
operator: so you can't tell if he's just...?
caller: no, i haven't gone over there to check him.
operator: okay, where is he at? is he in the street?
caller: on the curb, right by the cemetery.
operator: all right, we'll have an officer go out there.
caller: thank you.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, this is mr. hutzpeth again. no one's come by yet.
operator: okay, is he still there?
caller: yes.
operator: has he moved?
caller: no, it doesn't look like he's breathing.
operator: hang on just a second, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are you right there with him?
caller: yes.
scenario:medical
operator: is he conscious?
caller: no.
operator: stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: do you see the officer in the area yet?
caller: no.
caller: this location is one block from your station.
operator: okay, can you tell if he's breathing?
caller: no, he's not breathing.
operator: how old does he look?
caller: 30s.
operator: can you get close to him?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, listen carefully. is he laying on his back?
caller: yes.
operator: kneel next to him and look in his mouth for food or vomit, okay?
caller: he doesn't have either.
operator: can you place your hand on his forehead and the other hand under his neck?
caller: i'm not going to.
operator: i've got an ambulance coming to you. do you want to try and do cpr?
caller: no. the officer's here. it's ridiculous, it took 10 minutes for someone to get here from a block away.
operator: hang on just a second, okay? is the officer there?
caller: yes.
operator: talk to him. i've got the medics en route to you.
operator: derek shary 16. both are concerned?
caller: 16.
operator: i'm out with eight. go ahead.
caller: somebody, sycamore and bradshaw.
operator: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's been a gunshot at the cobb theater, movie theater at cobb and wesley chapel.
operator: okay, can you tell me more about what's happening?
caller: there was a gunshot. someone has been shot. it looks like it might have been a pistol.
operator: how old is the person who was shot?
caller: i don't know, maybe late 20s.
operator: is the person male or female?
caller: male.
operator: do you know who shot him?
caller: it looks like an older gentleman in the movie theater.
operator: is the suspect still in the theater?
caller: yes, he is.
operator: alright, stay on the line while i connect you to the sheriff's office.
caller: okay.
caller: someone is doing chest compressions trying to find a pulse.
operator: are you with the patient right now?
caller: yes, we are trying to help him breathe.
operator: can you check the patient's pulse?
caller: okay, we are trying.
operator: where inside the movie theater are you located?
caller: theater 10.
operator: okay, help is on the way. there should be someone waiting at the back entrance.
caller: okay, we will open the door for the ambulance.
operator: can you tell me where the shooter is sitting?
caller: he is right behind me.
operator: is the shooter still holding the gun?
caller: yes.
operator: can you give me a description of the shooter? age, clothing?
caller: he looks like he is in his 50s, wearing a light blue shirt.
operator: is the shooter sitting or standing?
caller: sitting.
operator: is he alone?
caller: no, there is someone with him.
caller: i'm a nurse. the pulse is weak. we need the ambulance quickly.
operator: help is on the way. stay on the line.
operator: when the deputies arrive, point out the shooter discreetly. can you do that?
caller: yes, i can.
operator: good. notify me when the deputies are inside.
caller: the pulse is very weak. please hurry.
operator: stay on the line. help is coming.
caller: i can't feel the pulse anymore.
operator: keep trying. the paramedics will be there any moment.
caller: the deputies are here.
operator: okay. i'll let you go now. good job staying calm.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm sorry for calling 999, but i didn't know what number to call. there's a guy at the exit from the beach, near the macarthur causeway, completely naked and throwing his clothes all over the highway.
operator: he's on the expressway?
caller: yes, he's on the street on the expressway, holding onto one of the light poles and acting like tarzan.
operator: and where is this exactly?
caller: when you're coming from the beach, near the macarthur causeway where the cruise ships are, it's the exit for the miami herald, the biscayne boulevard exit.
operator: so it's heading east from the beach?
caller: no, sorry, it's heading west.
caller: i'm really sorry for calling 999.
operator: okay, let me make sure i have this right. it's not an emergency, but there's a tall african-american man completely naked on one of the light poles acting like tarzan, and all his clothes are on the highway?
caller: yes, coming off the beach from south beach, on macarthur causeway heading west, at the exit of biscayne. completely naked man acting like tarzan.
operator: thank you. you've reached the florida highway patrol, miami regional communications. can you describe the situation again?
caller: yes, good afternoon. i was coming off the beach on the macarthur causeway, near where the cruise ships are. there's an african-american man on the exit of biscayne, completely naked, acting like tarzan on one of the light poles.
operator: okay, hold on. you said this is at 395 and biscayne, correct?
caller: yes, on 395, westbound.
operator: which bridge is this?
caller: over the bridge, right off biscayne.
caller: there's a guy standing naked as a jaybird.
operator: which bridge is this again?
caller: never mind, my brother is taking care of it.
operator: okay, are you reporting this?
caller: there's a naked man on the macarthur causeway at the biscayne boulevard exit. he is beating another man to a pulp. the man is bleeding badly.
operator: someone’s beating another man? you said you're a bus driver and you saw this happening?
caller: yes, i'm a bus driver. he is beating another man at the end of the causeway, heading towards miami. he might kill that man.
operator: okay, thank you.
caller: near 13th street and north bayshore drive on the sidewalk, there are two homeless men fighting, taking up the whole lane.
operator: 13th street and north bayshore drive?
caller: yeah, just up the causeway in the pedestrian area.
operator: would you like to leave a call-back number, sir?
caller: no, i'm leaving the area. they almost knocked over an old lady who was biking by.
operator: can you describe these individuals? black or white?
caller: darker skin color, maybe black or hispanic.
operator: and they were in the street?
caller: in the bike path or pedestrian walkway, crossing the macarthur causeway. clearly visible from northeast 13th street and north bayshore drive.
caller: thank you, i don't believe they noticed me.
operator: okay, sir, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a woman on my porch, she says she's been shot.
operator: ma'am, we're getting somebody on the way. what is your address?
caller: seven mccurry street.
operator: can the woman tell us what happened?
caller: her name is terry andrews. she says her whole family was shot.
operator: terry, what is your last name?
caller: hendricks.
operator: hendricks. okay, what is the address where this happened?
caller: 1a4 law street.
operator: how many people are at that house, ma'am?
caller: three people. my whole family.
operator: did they all get shot?
caller: yes, my brother and renee anderson.
operator: who did this?
caller: jerry williams. he's the one who shot us.
operator: are you shot too?
caller: yes, i was shot in my left arm.
operator: and you said there are three people at the residence who were shot?
caller: yes, three people.
operator: where is jerry williams now?
caller: he left in my sister's truck.
operator: do you know which way he went?
caller: i don't know.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about five minutes ago.
operator: what kind of gun did he have?
caller: he had a handgun.
operator: why did he do this?
caller: i don't know. he was arguing with my brother.
operator: do you know how many shots were fired?
caller: i don't know.
operator: do you know where the other victims were shot on their bodies?
caller: i think my brother got shot in the chest and renee in the leg.
operator: okay. we're getting someone to you as fast as we can. can you describe the truck?
caller: it's a white full-size truck, probably a silverado.
operator: is he alone?
caller: no, there's a female with him.
operator: do you know her name?
caller: no.
operator: did she have a weapon?
caller: no.
operator: what were they arguing about?
caller: i don't know.
operator: do you know where jerry williams lives?
caller: no.
operator: how old is he?
caller: about 35.
operator: is he a white male?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know what he was wearing?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: what is your sister's name?
caller: she's the one with him in the truck.
operator: is the truck registered to her?
caller: i think so.
operator: ma'am, stay on the line with me until officers get there.
caller: my leg, my arm, and my hands are hurting.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can. stay with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: you said 1a4 law street is a house?
caller: yes, it's a white house.
operator: where are the other victims in the house?
caller: in the living room.
operator: stay on the phone until officers arrive, okay?
caller: i will.
operator: officers should be arriving shortly.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my girlfriend was raped and i think she's dead.
caller: i need someone here now.
operator: okay. is she breathing?
caller: no, she isn't. there's vomit. she's been beaten.
caller: there's something tied around her neck. i just cut it off. she's dead.
caller: i've been doing cpr for the past 20 minutes. she ain't coming back.
operator: what's your address?
caller: yes, it's called cambridge square. the complex.
caller: someone said they already called an ambulance, but i'm just making sure.
operator: who called the ambulance?
caller: my neighbors.
operator: okay, we don't have a call on it. you said you've been doing cpr?
caller: yeah. get someone down here right now before i kill them.
operator: they're on their way, okay?
caller: because i think my neighbor did it.
operator: i've got another dispatcher dispatching them at this time. do you want to continue to try to do cpr?
caller: yes.
caller: tell me what i need to do.
operator: are you there?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, you're going to take your hands and place them in the center of her chest, right between the nipples.
caller: all right.
operator: push down hard and fast, about two inches in depth, and do it about 100 times a minute.
caller: say that again.
operator: you're going to do about 100 compressions per minute, very quickly paced.
caller: do it 100 times on her chest? that's what you're saying?
operator: yes, keep doing that. do 30 compressions, then give her two breaths.
caller: one, two, three... okay, 30. now tilt her head back and give her two breaths?
operator: yes, and then continue with 30 more compressions.
caller: it doesn't seem like air's coming out, but i'll keep doing it.
operator: keep doing it. 30 more compressions, and then two more breaths.
caller: 30 more compressions. two more breaths. okay.
caller: she sounds like she's choking with vomit. i can tell she's vomited.
caller: there's bruises all around her neck. she doesn't have a pulse.
operator: okay, keep doing compressions.
caller: please, god. i'll get to 30. two more breaths again.
operator: 9-9-9, i think we got disconnected.
caller: sorry.
operator: that's okay. are you still doing the compressions?
caller: yes. my girlfriend's been raped. she's dead.
operator: sir, are you still doing cpr?
caller: yes, i'm doing cpr.
operator: who's there with you?
caller: my neighbor.
caller: come on, baby.
operator: you're doing just fine, okay?
operator: give her the two breaths.
caller: okay, take the phone and talk to this lady.
caller: hello?
operator: hello. do you know how old she is?
caller: she's 17, i think.
operator: okay, keep going, don't stop. help is on the way.
caller: yeah, he's doing it. he's trying to bring her back.
operator: he found her like this?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. is he following the instructions i gave?
caller: yeah, he's doing just what you said.
operator: is the door unlocked so the crews can come inside?
caller: yes, they're on their way up now.
operator: okay, they should be there any moment.
caller: yes, they're here.
operator: i'm still here.
caller: the ambulance is here. they're inside the apartment.
operator: okay, stay on the line until they take over.
caller: i can't believe it. my girlfriend is dead.
operator: are you still on the phone?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: are you still there?
caller: yes, we're still here.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: matt?
operator: 9-9-9.
caller: oh, i'm sorry. i've got the wrong number.
operator: hello?
caller: hello?
operator: yes, this is 9-9-9.
caller: i just got through telling you, man. i'm sorry. i've got the wrong number.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: okay. i understand that. i have to ask you a couple of questions.
caller: yes, okay.
operator: your address?
caller: my address? 434 hilltop drive.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: 475-5730.
operator: and your name?
caller: bob beaver.
operator: anything else?
caller: you don't need my age or anything else? damn, you ask too many questions for me to have made a mistake. thank you.
operator: thank you.
caller: you to hell.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i've shot somebody on 10th street, i'm in front of the court.
operator: okay, you did?
caller: yes, he ran up on my car.
caller: he opened up my door and he attacked me.
operator: ma'am, ma'am, calm down.
operator: here's what i need you to do.
caller: he tried to hit me.
operator: ma'am, i understand. ma'am, are you still at thornton?
caller: yes, i am. i'm blocking traffic.
operator: okay, what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in a black suzuki.
operator: okay, here's what i need you to do. you need to put the gun down on the passenger side of your car.
caller: it is. i'm out of the car.
operator: okay, keep your hands on either the hood or the roof of the car where they can see them and just stay like that until the police get there so that there's no mishaps, okay?
caller: i put it under my seat.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone with me until they get there.
caller: i'm fine.
operator: okay.
operator: alright. don't hang up.
operator: what's your name?
caller: yolanda parris.
caller: i'm getting the information. i'm on 999 with the...
caller: i'm away from the car.
caller: she put the weapon back.
operator: okay, just, yolanda, what's your date of birth?
caller: 10/26/68.
operator: what is it?
caller: 10/26/68.
caller: let me put you on hold.
operator: who is that?
operator: ma'am, calm down.
caller: it's a fire department man i'm trying to talk to.
caller: the weapon is under the seat.
operator: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, is this a place?
operator: this is 999.
caller: 999?
operator: yes, what is your emergency?
caller: my dad has been physically and emotionally abusing me.
operator: what is your address?
caller: he said i was acting perfect to my psychiatrist.
operator: what address are you at?
caller: well, listen, at my psychiatrist, he, last month gave me a fever of 104 from stress, throwing up in a fever, and the psychiatrist said i could have died, and he laughed, and i just killed him.
caller: and he's dead right now, because i can't take the physical abuse.
caller: 2645 hamlin, 2645 hamlin.
operator: 2645 hamlin?
caller: yes, i'm being physically and mentally abused.
caller: they know me in arlington heights. i can't take the physical and mental abuse. i'm being totally abused.
operator: where is your dad right now?
caller: he's dead. he's lying on the ground.
operator: are you at 2645 hamlin right now?
caller: hold on one second.
operator: hello, displains. this is northwest central. do you have a 2645 hamlin in your town?
caller: pardon? 4645 hamlin?
caller: my dad has been mentally abusive. he could have killed me with 105 fever from stress.
operator: all right, sir.
caller: and he abuses me every day, and i can't take it anymore, and i took a knife to him, and i killed him.
operator: sir, where are you?
caller: i'm in my house. i killed him because he was abusing me, and my psychiatrist said he could have killed me.
caller: my mom told my dad that the psychiatrist said he could have killed me, and he said he didn't care if i died or not.
operator: we are starting to trace the call now, sir.
caller: yes, yes. 2645 hamlin. i mean stratford, stratford.
operator: in what city?
caller: arlington heights.
operator: all right, thank you. we have dispatched the police. stay on the line.
operator: sir?
operator: your call has been forwarded to an automatic voice message system.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is terry.
operator: what is the address of the emergency?
caller: i live in mount prospect, but i need to have somebody go to my brother-in-law's house.
operator: okay, what is his address, terry?
caller: hang on a second. my brother-in-law's girlfriend just ran away from the house. i don't have the address memorized, but i have it here. hang on a second. what is it, nancy? 531. 531 wilshire.
operator: okay, 531 wilshire. in what town is that?
caller: that's in arlington heights.
operator: okay, hang on just a second, please.
caller: i will.
operator: okay, and the address, we're sure it's 531 wilshire?
caller: yes.
operator: i don't show that as a valid arlington heights address.
caller: okay, hang on. i'm just flipping through my address book right now.
operator: that's okay.
caller: nancy, stay there. don't go in the house. okay, it's 1031. i'm sorry. it's 1031 north wiltshire lane in arlington heights. and he's leaving right now.
operator: okay, ma'am, hang on just a moment, please. i just want to make sure, is it 1031 north wiltshire lane in arlington heights?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, and terry, what's going on out there?
caller: well, my brother-in-law's girlfriend received a call from work that my brother-in-law hasn't shown up. she went in there. my nephew, who's had drug issues, wouldn't let her in at first, but she went in there, and she said that my brother-in-law is dead.
operator: okay, how old is he?
caller: he's 18 years old, i think, or 19.
operator: okay, is he awake?
caller: she said that he's pulling out of the house right now.
operator: okay, so did he get up and leave, or what are you saying? he's dead?
caller: no, no, my nephew is in the house and we think he's the one that did it.
operator: okay, so there's someone down in the house and a second male left the house? do you think he killed him?
caller: yes, yes, please.
operator: okay, hang on just a second. i'm getting help on the way. hang on just a second. stay on the phone with me, terry. i'll be right back with you.
operator: terry?
caller: yeah.
operator: terry, we have the police and paramedics on the way right now. so who is the person that fled the house?
caller: that's my nephew, matthew. he is a drug addict.
operator: okay. does the lady that's there right now, can she tell us if this person is awake or if he's breathing?
caller: you mean my brother-in-law.
operator: okay, it's your brother-in-law at the house? okay, there were two people in the house. one is your brother-in-law who has been missing from work, and the other one is your nephew, matthew, who has drug issues. and the person who is on the phone with you right now is your brother-in-law's girlfriend?
caller: yes, that's correct.
operator: okay, so the girlfriend found him in the house and the nephew took off then. is that right?
caller: i am with 999, nancy. they are on the way. okay, ma'am, the nephew took off. is that right?
caller: hang on, nancy. what is it? hello?
operator: ma'am, please talk to me. hang on just a second.
caller: yep, they're coming, ma'am.
operator: can they tell you at all why they think he's dead? is there an outward sign of any trauma or what's going on?
caller: she's on speakerphone. i don't know if you can hear it.
operator: no, i can't hear it, ma'am. can you relay the information?
caller: nancy, can you say how you found george, please? did you hear that, ma'am?
operator: no, i didn't, ma'am. what did she say?
caller: he's in the basement tied to a chair.
operator: okay. so he was found tied to a chair in the basement?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. are there any weapons? do you see any weapons or anything?
caller: nancy, do you see any weapons? she's hysterical, ma'am. i can't really talk to her.
operator: okay. try to get that for us if you can. can you tell how he might have been traumatized?
caller: nancy, can you tell how he was traumatized? she's saying he's been beheaded. do you want to talk to her directly because i could give you her phone number?
operator: oh, there's somebody there now, she says.
caller: she just hung up. do you still want me to stay?
operator: now, ma'am, what did you say? you said he was beheaded?
caller: yes, but there's a cop there now. i guess you might need to just talk to the cops.
operator: okay, so the officer is on the scene. hang on just a second, ma'am.
operator: okay, so you said he was beheaded and then the officer arrived and she disconnected, is that right?
caller: right.
operator: okay, what is the phone number you have for her?
caller: [provides phone number]
operator: okay, what is her name?
caller: nancy zimmerman.
operator: okay, we do have officers on scene right now, terry. i'm going to go ahead and let you go, okay?
caller: okay, that's fine.
operator: thanks, terry. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my friend was just hit by a train.
operator: where at?
caller: um, i'm not sure. i can see lights, and it looks like an accident. i'm trying to run down there. i think he's dead.
operator: it looks like you're on iowa avenue in lexington township. stay on the line.
caller: oh, my gosh.
operator: fire department, where's your emergency?
caller: i'm not sure. the lady said i'm on iowa avenue. my friend just got hit by a train.
operator: your friend?
caller: yeah, we were walking over the track, he got hit.
operator: where are you?
caller: i'm by the greenbauer, near the train tracks, like 800 yards away from the greenbauer train tracks crossing. i can see lights right now, like 30,000 yards away.
operator: okay, give me your name.
caller: my name's connor tice.
operator: connor tice?
caller: yeah. please, you guys hurry, he's dying.
operator: okay, we are, but i need you to stay on the phone. i'm going to put you on hold and get them on their way, okay? stay on the line.
caller: all right, you got to hurry, please.
operator: stay on the line, hold on.
caller: oh my god, come on. oh, my god. no. oh, my god. no.
operator: fire department, where's your emergency?
caller: i'm not sure. the lady just left me. my friend just got hit by a train.
operator: your friend?
caller: yeah, we were walking and a train got hit.
operator: where are you?
caller: i'm by greenbauer, by the train tracks, like 800 yards away from the greenbauer train tracks, like crossing. i can see lights right now, like 30,000 yards away.
operator: okay, give me your name.
caller: my name's connor tice.
operator: connor tice?
caller: yeah. please, you guys hurry, he's dying.
operator: okay, we are, but i need you to stay on the phone. i'm going to put you on hold and get them on their way, okay? stay on the line.
caller: you got to hurry, please.
operator: stay on the line, hold on.
caller: oh my god.
operator: okay, sir, are you still there? we're on the way. i have two people on the way, okay?
caller: hurry up, please.
operator: we are on the way. we'll be there any minute. can you give me any update on whether or not he's still breathing?
caller: um, if you tell me how.
operator: is he conscious at all?
caller: no, his tongue was sticking out. i think he's dead.
operator: okay. well, stay calm with me and we'll find out when we get there, okay? did the train stop?
caller: yeah, the train stopped.
operator: the train did stop? okay.
caller: yeah.
operator: how do you spell your name, connor?
caller: c-o-n-n-e-r t-i-c-e.
operator: how old is your friend?
caller: he's 15. his name is cody thayer.
operator: he's 15?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. how old are you?
caller: i'm 14.
operator: okay. let me know when you hear sirens or anything, okay, if you could do that for me?
caller: i can see police lights from here, but they thought that it was some kind of construction.
operator: okay. well, they should be there any minute. if you can, i need you to stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: is there anybody from the train? did they get out or anything yet?
caller: i don't know, i'm on the road.
operator: okay.
operator: yeah, if you see someone coming, whether it be police or fire, you need to flag them down, okay?
caller: i could run to these people real quick.
operator: what people? the police officers?
operator: connor, are you there? hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have a kidnapping.
operator: all right, please. explain to me what's going on, okay?
caller: there's a note left and our daughter's gone.
operator: a note was left and your daughter is gone?
caller: yes, she's six years old. she's gone.
operator: how long ago was this?
caller: i don't know. i just found the note.
operator: does it say who took her?
caller: there's a ransom note here. it says s-b-t-c. victory.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: patsy ramsey. i'm the mother. oh my god.
operator: i'm sending an officer over, okay? do you know how long she's been gone?
caller: no, i don't. please, we just got up and she's not here. oh my god, please.
operator: okay, try to stay calm. help is on the way.
caller: please, hurry, hurry, hurry.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, yeah.
operator: what happened?
caller: i think my roommate just got shot.
operator: i can hardly hear you. can you give me your address?
caller: our address is 112 south lily. my roommate just got shot.
operator: can you tell me exactly what happened?
caller: we were in the house cooking and we heard shots. my roommate is outside, covered in blood.
operator: can you confirm the address for me again?
caller: 112 south lily.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling me from?
caller: [gives phone number]
operator: are you with your roommate now?
caller: no, we thought she left the house. i don't know what to do.
operator: where is she?
caller: she's out on the back porch.
operator: how old is she?
caller: 22.
caller: there were a lot of shots, so i think someone should hurry.
operator: okay, i've dispatched medical and officers to 112 south lily.
operator: was she awake?
caller: i don't know. my other roommate ran out. should we go back?
operator: did you see anyone?
caller: no, she was alone outside.
operator: where was she shot?
caller: all in her torso, i think.
operator: do you know where the shots came from?
caller: we were inside, they came from outside, but i don't know where.
scenario:traffic
operator: do you have any idea why someone would shoot her?
caller: she had some things going on involving someone.
operator: can you tell me who that someone was?
caller: ernesto bustamante.
operator: where are you right now?
caller: i'm driving down surge street, just driving in circles.
operator: do you know where ernesto lives?
caller: last i knew, he was staying in the grove, i think.
operator: you said she's 22. do you know her full name?
caller: katie benoit.
operator: how do you spell her last name?
caller: b-e-n-o-i-t.
operator: did you hear anything else or how many gunshots?
caller: at least five, maybe seven.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go. we have officers on the way. stay safe and don't return to the house right now.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: what kind of vehicle are you in?
caller: a white malibu.
caller: our oven is on, if someone could turn it off, that would be great.
operator: we'll let them know, alright?
caller: thank you so much. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at wetdale place.
operator: can you repeat that address?
caller: w-e-t-d-a-l-e place.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: house.
operator: what's your name?
caller: it's [name].
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i'm calling you from my cell, which is [number].
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: something is going on. there's a man screaming for about 30 minutes on the front porch. he goes in and screams that he's god. i mean, it's like delusional stuff.
operator: do you know the house number?
caller: no, i don't.
caller: he stood on the porch and started a monologue. this is not typical at all. this is not a kid; this is a grown man.
operator: do you think he might be under the influence of alcohol or drugs?
caller: i don't think so. i don't know, i could be wrong. it's just scary because he comes out and screams. at one point, i thought he was talking to someone, but he dropped his pants out there, screaming that he's god, and then slams the door.
operator: how long has this been going on?
caller: this has been going on for about half an hour. he goes back out on the porch, and it's a little scary.
operator: do you know if he uses alcohol or drugs?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: how old is he?
caller: i don't know. late 30s or 40s, maybe.
operator: is he white, black, hispanic?
caller: he's white.
operator: what's he wearing?
caller: last time i saw him, he was in a t-shirt and nothing else.
operator: so he was only wearing a t-shirt?
caller: well, he had something. i haven't actually walked out there. i'm afraid to walk out there. he was in a t-shirt and then he pulled down his pants while screaming, 'i am god.' it's like he's flipped out.
operator: do you want the police to come by and speak with you after they investigate?
caller: i don't see a reason for that.
operator: okay, that's fine. the police will be out there as quickly as possible.
caller: i have heard this guy say in the past that he has a gun. not in a threatening way, but he has mentioned it.
operator: okay.
caller: we had a neighborhood disturbance once, and he made an offhand comment about having a gun. i'm a bit worried now.
operator: how long ago did he mention the gun?
caller: a few months ago. it was just an offhand comment.
operator: i understand. the police will be out there as quickly as possible. stay safe inside your home.
caller: alright, i will. thank you.
operator: have a good night.
caller: you too.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, ma'am. there's a man lying on the highway. i think he has blood on his arm.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: i don't know. he's lying face down. i'm kind of afraid to approach him.
operator: tell me exactly where you're at.
caller: it's right before the 2.15 exit.
operator: alright, is anyone else with him?
caller: no, i'm approaching him now. i'm scared to touch him though.
operator: try not to move him. can you see if he is breathing?
caller: i can't tell, it's dark. he doesn't seem to be breathing.
operator: alright, hold on for just a moment while i connect you.
caller: it looks like he might be breathing, or it could be the wind.
operator: do you know how to perform cpr?
caller: yes, but i'm not sure if i should.
operator: if he's breathing, just monitor him until help arrives.
caller: okay, thank you. i think there's a police car approaching.
operator: alright, stay with him and wait for the officers.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need police.
operator: what's your emergency?
caller: i know there's an amber alert on tv for this little boy.
operator: okay.
caller: and there is a young man that looks just like the guy they said took the little boy.
operator: where? where are you?
caller: he's right here on eddie road, right near the underpass.
operator: eddie and where?
caller: what is this street? i'm at eddie road and 131.
operator: eddie road and 131?
caller: yes, eddie road.
operator: what does he have on?
caller: he has on a black leather coat. he has a small child with him.
operator: okay, do not lose visual on this man.
caller: i'm trying to go back. he's standing right here.
operator: stay on the line.
caller: i really am not sure what to do.
operator: just keep an eye on him.
caller: he's under the bridge where i said he was.
operator: okay. turn back around if you can.
caller: i got him right here.
operator: can you describe him?
caller: i can't tell. i didn't get a good look.
operator: does he have on a black leather coat?
caller: yes. he's approximately five foot six.
operator: does the child have on a bubble coat?
caller: yes.
operator: does the child have on khaki pants?
caller: yes.
operator: and you are at eddie and 133rd?
caller: yes.
operator: do not leave the area, please.
caller: he's going towards 131st.
operator: is he running or walking?
caller: he's not running. he's heading up the road.
operator: be advised the male is now going towards 131st.
caller: he's going up the hill right here at the overpass.
operator: do you think he noticed you?
caller: yes. he's not hiding anymore.
operator: what type of vehicle are you in, ma'am?
caller: i'm in a blue chevy cobalt.
operator: exactly where are you now?
caller: i'm sitting in the middle of the street and people are blowing their horns at me.
operator: okay. stay safe.
caller: he's right there! do you see him?
operator: ma'am?
caller: i'm going to follow him.
operator: what's your name, sweetie?
caller: jacqueline harris.
operator: jacqueline? what's your last name?
caller: harris.
operator: what's your phone number, ms. harris?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: thank you so much, ms. harris.
caller: no problem.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my wife is in the bathroom. she's bleeding all over the place. she thinks she's having a baby.
operator: is she having the baby right now?
caller: i think so. i think she's in labor.
operator: okay, what's your address, sir?
caller: oh my god, i'm looking at a baby.
operator: okay, listen, i need your address.
caller: i have a baby. oh my god.
operator: okay, hold on. you didn't know she was pregnant?
caller: no, i had no idea my wife was pregnant.
operator: what's the phone number you're at?
caller: that's my cell phone number.
caller: oh my god. my wife is holding a baby.
operator: how old is she?
caller: 27 years old. she's had three children, two of mine, one before me.
operator: okay, i'm going to tell you what to do. you need to get out of the bathroom.
caller: she's fine. oh my god, i'm looking at a baby.
operator: okay, calm down. is the baby crying or breathing?
caller: yeah, she's crying.
operator: we need to get a cloth and you need to wipe off the baby's mouth and nose, okay?
caller: hold on, carrie. what's, ma'am? sorry, i didn't hear you, ma'am.
operator: you need to dry the baby off with a dry towel.
caller: okay, i've got towels.
operator: don't pull the cord out. leave it loose.
caller: okay, put the baby in a towel.
operator: put the baby in the mother's arms or on her belly.
caller: okay, it's fine.
operator: wrap a towel around the baby to keep it warm.
caller: okay, oh my god. the placenta is out.
operator: okay, don't push. we're going to work on tying the cord off. get a piece of string or a shoelace.
caller: find a piece of string or a shoelace. i don't care what shoe.
caller: oh my god, how could she pretend she wasn't pregnant?
operator: try to get her to lay back, we want her to lay down.
caller: carrie, just get as comfortable as possible. now one goes on the way.
operator: tie the cord off about 6 inches from the baby.
caller: okay, she said tie the cord off about 6 inches from the baby's belly.
operator: how tight? pretty tight, but don't cut it.
caller: yep, that's good.
operator: you said the placenta came out already?
caller: yep, there's nothing connected to my wife.
operator: i want you to get another towel and wrap the placenta in it.
caller: carrie, wrap the placenta in a towel.
operator: put the baby on mom's belly. how's mom doing?
caller: she's sore but calm.
operator: okay, get a blanket to wrap around mom.
caller: oh my god, is the front light on?
operator: is she bleeding profusely?
caller: honey, are you bleeding real bad?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: okay, it looks normal from the other births.
caller: yes, it's not like going all over, just a bit.
operator: how's the baby's color?
caller: he's fine. he looks just like me.
operator: okay, she's not bleeding real bad?
caller: no.
operator: how's the baby looking?
caller: he's perfectly fine. i'm looking right at him.
operator: okay, just relax. let her know they are on the way.
caller: they're on the way, honey.
operator: she did a wonderful job.
caller: she did a great job for not knowing she was pregnant.
operator: can i talk to her?
caller: here, talk to him for a second.
caller: hi.
operator: what's your name?
caller: tyler whitney.
operator: so now you're a big brother?
caller: yep, i have one brother. now i have two and two sisters.
operator: cool. what's dad's name?
caller: dan and ryan.
operator: is ryan the one there tonight?
caller: yes.
operator: what's mom's name?
caller: carrie.
operator: how exciting to have a new baby!
caller: really exciting.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 10.
operator: how's mom doing?
caller: she's laying on the floor with the baby.
operator: okay, can you give the phone back to mom?
caller: okay.
caller: hello.
operator: hi. so what's going on with the baby? is he dirty?
caller: yes, he has meconium on his head.
operator: that's normal. babies are usually cleaned up by the hospital.
caller: okay.
operator: is the baby breathing?
caller: yes, he's blowing bubbles. what a surprise.
operator: how are you feeling?
caller: a little sore, but pretty good.
operator: your son tyler is very excited about the new baby.
caller: oh, they just said they're here.
operator: congratulations!
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, there's gunshots. we're all on the floor.
operator: they've been gunshots? we're all on the floor.
caller: we're over on arlington university right next to walgreens. we're on 5551, arlington road.
operator: has anybody been shot?
caller: i don't know. we're all inside. we all came inside.
operator: do you hear anyone screaming out like they've been shot? or did you see the vehicle that did the shooting?
caller: there are people screaming outside. a lot of people screaming outside.
operator: did you see them actually shoot the weapon or you just heard the shot?
caller: we all heard the shots and all came right inside. everyone i hear that's in the building is not hurt. no one's hurt.
operator: is this in a building, like apartments or a residence?
caller: we're in a building across from walgreens. called midnight expresso.
operator: the cops are already here.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
caller: there are gunshots going off on arlington road and university boulevard. i don't know if anyone's been shot.
operator: how many shots did you hear?
caller: about five, six, seven.
operator: did you hear any cars speeding off?
caller: no.
operator: okay, sir, what's your last name?
caller: christopher lemlin, l-e-m-e-l-i-n.
operator: i'll get an officer out there and let them know.
caller: okay, they might want to send an ambulance.
operator: okay, they're on their way.
scenario:fire
operator: jacksonville 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling to report gunshots.
operator: did you see anybody get shot, ma'am?
caller: no, but i hear people outside screaming now.
operator: where at? is this at a house, apartment, or mobile home?
caller: mine is a house.
operator: how many shots did you hear?
caller: maybe five, but i didn't see who shot the individual. i was almost asleep.
operator: we've gotten other calls that someone was shot. what is your last name, ma'am?
caller: johnson.
operator: okay, ma'am, we have officers on the way. thank you.
caller: thanks.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm like one block away from the corner of university boulevard and arlington road. i heard like four or five shots, and now i hear a lot of people screaming on the corner.
operator: ma'am, we are responding to a shooting over there. where are you located?
caller: i'm at the next street behind university, called easter street. i know something bad's happening up there.
operator: we have officers on the way. thank you, ma'am.
caller: no problem. what's your last name?
operator: jacksonville 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there was a gunfight going on university boulevard by walgreens.
operator: do you see the people involved?
caller: no, but i see people running down the street.
operator: how many did you see run off?
caller: three.
operator: could you tell what they had on?
caller: no, it's dark. i couldn't tell.
operator: i'll let them know they ran down macy avenue. what's your last name?
operator: jacksonville 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, there's been a shooting down the street at club minnow's.
operator: where at, sir? what's the address?
caller: on university, down the street from walgreens.
operator: did you see anybody get shot?
caller: no, i just heard gunshots, letting y'all know.
operator: we have officers out in the area.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i've just been bitten by, i think, a red-tail fox up in red reef park.
operator: you just were bitten by a fox?
caller: yeah. i think he's rabid. he came out of the woods crazy.
caller: i just killed him, though. i have him here.
operator: you killed him?
caller: yeah. i chased the sucker down. he bit me and my wife both. my wife is running down the road looking for somebody, they may get another call.
caller: he's on the phone with me, okay?
operator: okay. how are you feeling?
caller: i'm all right. he bit me in the calf. he bit my wife in the knee.
operator: did it just come up to you and bite you?
caller: he was growling and then he ran out of the bushes and bit my wife. then i grabbed a stick and chased him. he bit me and then i killed him after that. he was crazy.
caller: i don't even think it’s the only thing. we just had a raccoon attack somebody down the street too. something's going on with the animals today.
caller: they might have thought it was a raccoon because this guy was crazy.
operator: okay, yeah. sir, stay right there in the park, okay? don't move.
caller: we're not at red reef. i'm sorry. no, no, yeah, we are. we're at red reef, north end.
operator: so are you at the red reef park, sir?
caller: red reef park, north end, yeah.
operator: at the north end?
caller: i parked in south beach, but we're in red reef.
operator: at red reef?
caller: yep. at the north end.
operator: and this just occurred like a minute ago?
caller: like five minutes ago.
caller: yeah, i think it was the same. we have had some confusion. we'll be right there, sir. the firefighters are right down the street.
caller: bye-bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's a restaurant.
operator: okay, what is your emergency?
caller: yeah, let me, i'm, uh, being so, i'm the attention, and i'm, because there's, they're in the box. like, how, are two? so, four, five, and then that's, discrimination. i go, no, it's a restaurant.
operator: okay, sir, let's start over. are you at a restaurant right now?
caller: yes, it's called chico's tacos. i'm security.
operator: okay, marco, what's going on at the restaurant?
caller: there are two men kissing, and they're being aggressive because they're saying we are discriminating them and calling the police.
operator: i understand. we'll send a unit as soon as possible, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'd like to see if you can send out an officer to the chico's tacos?
operator: chico's tacos? which one?
caller: montwood.
operator: okay. what's going on there?
caller: we came to eat, and a couple that's with us, they're two males, and they're boyfriends, and they're kissing, and they're kicking us out.
operator: they're kicking you out?
caller: yes, they're saying that it's not allowed for them to kiss here, and they want to kick us out.
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name's carlos.
operator: alright, carlos, we'll go ahead and send an officer out. please wait for them to arrive.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: sir, this is my fifth time calling. i'm at chico's tacos on montwood.
operator: yes, sir. we are aware of your call. the police are a little busy, but they'll be there as soon as possible.
caller: thank you very much.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'm sorry to bother you. i called about a complaint at chico's tacos on montwood and treywood.
operator: okay, give me one second. you said montwood and treywood?
caller: yes, ma'am. they are going to close soon and we have an issue with the security guard.
operator: okay, it looks like we still have your call in the system. someone will be sent out as soon as possible.
caller: is it going to take a while? they close soon.
operator: it's difficult to say, but they'll be there as soon as possible. there's a lot happening tonight, especially with the weather.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just came in and shot my daughter and my husband.
operator: they shot them? are they conscious?
caller: she's bleeding out. please, ma'am, she's bleeding.
operator: how old is your daughter?
caller: she's 10.
operator: and where were they shot?
caller: in the head.
operator: should i pick her up?
operator: no, i want you to leave her where she is. are they still there?
caller: they're coming back in! they're coming back in!
operator: do you know who they are?
caller: *incoherent shouting*
operator: hello? are you still there? are you okay?
caller: ma'am, i don't know. i'm scared.
operator: okay, how many people were there?
caller: i don't know, ma'am. i was asleep, and i can't even move. i've been shot myself.
operator: okay, where were you shot?
caller: i think i'm shot in the leg. i'm not sure, ma'am.
operator: are you armed?
caller: yes.
operator: emergency services are coming. please stay on the line.
caller: did you see any of them?
caller: no, i didn't. i just got up, ma'am. they told us someone escaped from jail and wanted to come in, then they just shot my husband, my daughter, and me.
operator: you said they wanted to come in because of an escaped person?
caller: yes, they said the property was surrounded with border patrol.
operator: how long is it going to take for them to get here?
operator: they are on their way. are they still in the house?
caller: i don't know, ma'am. i'm just here bleeding like crazy, and i have this gun loaded.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: i don't know, it's just a handgun.
operator: where in the house are you?
caller: i'm in the kitchen, staring at the door.
operator: are you with your husband and your daughter?
caller: no, i don't want to look at them.
operator: what kind of vehicles do you have on your property?
caller: i have a black suburban and a white truck. i don't know if they stole anything.
operator: did it sound like males were talking?
caller: there was a male and a shorter, fat woman.
operator: okay, and what did the woman look like? was she hispanic?
caller: no, she was white.
operator: and you mentioned you have one of their guns?
caller: yes, but i haven't touched it.
operator: okay, don't touch it.
caller: i think one of them came back for the gun.
operator: did you see any of them?
caller: no, they were gone by the time i got back up.
operator: did you shoot at them?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know if you hit any of them?
caller: no.
operator: okay. did you hear any vehicles speed off?
caller: i just heard some doors shut.
operator: how long until they get here?
operator: they should be in the area. they're checking the surroundings.
caller: i can't move, ma'am. my leg is killing me.
operator: keep some pressure on it, okay?
caller: i'm trying. what am i going to do?
operator: we'll get someone to you. okay, try to stay calm.
caller: i think they might have been looking for money.
operator: do you think it was a mistake or someone with a grudge?
caller: i don't know. maybe. i just don't know.
operator: which leg was shot?
caller: my right leg.
operator: keep pressure on it.
caller: they said they surrounded the house. they had guns taped.
operator: okay.
operator: and the male, was he also white?
caller: yes, the female was white, and a mexican man came in too.
operator: okay, so there was a white male, a white female, and a mexican male?
caller: yes, and they shot me. i pretended i was dead. my daughter was crying, so they shot her too.
operator: they shot her again after the first time you told me?
caller: yes, like two or three times.
operator: is there anyone else in the house?
caller: no, just us.
operator: do you have any pets in the house?
caller: we have dogs, but they ran out when this happened.
operator: stay with me until someone gets there. we have units in the area.
caller: okay.
caller: my daughter got in a fight with a girl last week. maybe it has something to do with it.
operator: were there any drugs mentioned, or were they just looking for money?
caller: they just said hurry up and get what we need. we don't have drugs or anything like that.
operator: do you think it was a mistake?
caller: i don't know.
operator: does your leg feel swollen?
caller: yes.
operator: keep some pressure on it.
caller: i'm trying.
operator: stay calm. help is coming.
caller: they left behind a sawed-off shotgun.
operator: don't touch it.
caller: as soon as i thought they left, one came back for it, but i jumped up.
operator: your husband knew how to use the gun?
caller: yes.
operator: did you hit any of them?
caller: no.
operator: did you fire shots?
caller: yes.
operator: how many shots did you fire?
caller: i don't know, a few.
operator: did they shoot back?
caller: yes.
operator: did you hear them leave?
caller: i heard some doors shut.
operator: what about now?
caller: i hear cars driving outside.
operator: they should be there soon. please stay on the line.
caller: i hope they come soon.
operator: do you remember any specific details about the people?
caller: the woman was short and fat, the man was very tall.
operator: were they wearing masks?
caller: no, but the man's face was painted black.
operator: were all their faces painted?
caller: no, just the man's.
operator: do you know if he was the one who shot your husband?
caller: yes.
operator: can you think of anyone who would want to hurt your family?
caller: no.
operator: where are your husband and daughter?
caller: in the living room.
operator: okay, stay with me.
caller: i hear someone pulling up.
operator: do you see any flashing lights?
caller: no, i can't get up.
operator: they should be announcing themselves.
caller: they're pulling away.
operator: okay, stay calm. do you see anything?
caller: no.
operator: do you hear any movement outside?
caller: just cars driving crazily.
operator: units are there. stay with me until they reach you.
caller: okay.
caller: please call my family.
operator: we will call them. do you hear anything else?
caller: the gate might be locked.
operator: okay, stay with me.
operator: put your hands up and put the gun down.
caller: i can't get up.
operator: just put the gun down and keep your hands up.
caller: i'm in the kitchen on 999.
operator: is he with you now?
caller: yes, he's here.
operator: okay, i'll let you go now.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know. a girl came running to my house just a second ago. she said someone was going to die.
operator: how long ago was this?
caller: about two minutes ago.
operator: do you know her?
caller: yeah, she's my neighbor.
operator: how did he look?
caller: i didn't see him. she said someone was outside her house, threatening her.
operator: is she with you now?
caller: no, she's outside. hold on a second.
scenario:robbery
operator: hello, are you still there?
caller: hold on.
operator: hello, hi.
operator: was the person on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: who's on foot?
operator: which direction did they go? do you know if it was north, south, east, or west?
caller: i didn't get a chance to see. i just ran.
operator: about how old did they look?
caller: young, maybe 20s, mid-20s.
operator: what race were they? white, black, hispanic?
caller: he was black.
operator: about how tall and how much did he weigh?
caller: i'm not sure. he had sunglasses on and braids.
operator: would you describe him as thin, medium, or heavy build?
caller: thin, maybe.
operator: you said he had sunglasses. what color were they?
caller: black sunglasses.
operator: and what color cap did he have?
caller: a black baseball cap.
operator: what color shirt did he have on?
caller: black.
operator: what color pants?
caller: black.
operator: and you don't know which direction he went?
caller: no.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 29.
operator: did he say anything to you?
caller: yes, when i went to get my phone, he told me not to.
operator: you went to get your phone and he told you not to?
caller: yeah, i was on the road.
operator: were you outside?
caller: i was inside my house when he came in.
operator: he came into your house?
caller: yes, he came inside my house and was looking everywhere.
operator: hold on for a second, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: do you know what kind of gun it was? was it a handgun or a rifle?
caller: it was a black pistol.
operator: did he have it in his hand, or where was it?
caller: it was in his hand. he was pointing it at me.
operator: and you didn't see which direction he went at all?
caller: no, he just came inside my house and was looking everywhere.
operator: is there anything else that you remember about him?
caller: he had a backpack on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: just read sign-o-cordid this, teresa.
operator: may i help you?
caller: oh, my god, i need help. oh, my god.
caller: i killed my mom and my dad.
operator: i'm sorry, what happened?
caller: i killed my mom and my dad.
operator: what is your address?
caller: i bought the avenue.
operator: i'm sorry, can you repeat that?
caller: it's oracle.
operator: can you stop me?
operator: what city are you in?
caller: i don't know, i'm new here.
operator: okay, are you off of weber?
caller: maybe, i think so.
operator: okay, is there a name to your neighborhood?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, what's the phone number you're calling from?
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name is ryan.
operator: what's your last name, ryan?
caller: can you spell it?
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened, ryan.
caller: my dad, he kept hitting my mom and i went to grab his gun. and then my mom came and he shot her by accident. then my dad came at me and i shot them both in the head.
operator: okay, so you shot them both?
caller: yes. i was scared.
operator: okay, i'm getting help to you, okay?
caller: no, i'll kill you all. i have a bomb.
operator: okay, stay on the line, okay. i have some questions for you.
operator: when did this occur?
caller: it happened 20 minutes ago.
operator: this happened 20 minutes ago?
caller: yes.
operator: what type of weapon did you use? you said you shot them with a gun?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, where are the weapons now?
caller: it's in my hand. i'm going to kill myself.
operator: okay, i don't want you to do that, alright?
caller: i'm going to blow myself up.
operator: ryan, stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: ryan, i need your description. are you white, black, or hispanic?
caller: i'm white.
operator: okay, and how old are you?
caller: i'm 16.
operator: okay, what are you wearing?
caller: i'm wearing a blue shirt with blood all over me.
operator: ryan, can you put the gun down?
caller: no, she's going to kill me.
operator: who's going to kill you?
caller: i'm going to die.
operator: ryan, can you put the gun down for me?
caller: no.
operator: where exactly are you in your house?
caller: in the bathroom.
operator: you're in the bathroom?
caller: yes, i have a bomb around my chest.
operator: you have a bomb around your chest?
caller: yes.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it's a handgun.
operator: okay, and you're still in the bathroom?
caller: yes.
operator: what side of the house is the bathroom on?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, where are your parents? are they still breathing?
caller: no, they're not.
operator: ryan, did you check to see if they were still breathing?
caller: i did. they're dead.
operator: okay, ryan, are you still in the bathroom?
caller: no, i'm outside.
operator: you're in the backyard?
caller: yes.
operator: ryan, do you still have the gun in your hand?
caller: yes.
operator: can you put it down for me?
caller: no.
operator: okay, where are you exactly?
caller: i'm leaving. i'm running away.
operator: ryan, i want you to stay on the phone with me.
caller: no, i'm leaving.
operator: we're trying to get help to you.
caller: no, i'll shoot anyone who comes near me.
operator: ryan, can you please tell me where you are?
caller: i ran away. i'm not telling you.
operator: we're trying to help you, ryan.
caller: no, i'll shoot anyone who comes near me.
operator: you still have the gun in your hand?
caller: yes.
operator: ryan, can you tell me where you are so we can help you?
caller: no, what am i going to tell you?
operator: we're trying to help you, ryan.
caller: i know what you guys do. you're going to kill me.
operator: no one wants to hurt you. we just want to help.
caller: you're going to kill me.
operator: ryan, what are you wearing?
caller: no, you'll find me.
operator: ryan, can you tell me what you're wearing?
caller: goodbye.
operator: no, ryan, stay on the phone with me.
caller: eight minutes.
operator: eight minutes until it goes off?
caller: yes, i don't want to hurt anyone. i just want to blow myself up.
operator: ryan, we want to help you. you don't have to do this.
caller: you're going to kill me too!
operator: no one wants to hurt you, ryan.
caller: i hear you guys. i hear the cops.
operator: can you tell me where exactly you are?
caller: i'm going to shoot them.
operator: no, ryan, don't do that.
caller: i'm going to kill them.
operator: they're trying to help you.
caller: no, i'm running away.
operator: ryan, can you tell me where you're hiding?
caller: no, stay away from my house.
operator: ryan, we want to help you. can you tell me where you are?
caller: i don't want to talk to you. i want to talk to someone else.
operator: i'm trying to help you, ryan.
caller: no. goodbye.
operator: ryan, what do you like to do for fun?
caller: i like to cut my wrist.
operator: no, don't do that. don't hang up on me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm on the freeway between hurricane and colorado city.
operator: okay, so you're on sr 59, i believe?
caller: yes.
operator: what mile marker?
caller: i don't know. i'm pulled over in the road.
caller: my husband's in the middle of the road having a serious, like, psychosis.
operator: okay, do you know what mile marker at all?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: and is he being violent right now?
caller: he's taking his clothes off, he's running in this street.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from in case we get disconnected?
caller: area code 435-512-1487.
caller: brian, pick up your shirt.
operator: okay, and what is he saying? what's he doing?
caller: he's freaking out.
operator: okay. do you know what's going on?
caller: no!
operator: how old is he?
caller: oh my god. please, just try to jump in front of a car or something.
operator: he tried to jump in front of a car?
caller: yes.
caller: stop, stop, stop! stop, brian! you're going to get hurt, please.
operator: ma'am, what is your name?
caller: my name is anna cardo. will you please get in the car, brian? please.
operator: ann, i need you to talk to me, okay?
caller: i'm sorry. i'm just afraid he's going to jump in front of the car.
operator: i understand. does he have any weapons?
caller: no.
operator: has he been drinking?
caller: no, no.
operator: has anybody been doing any drugs?
caller: no. brian, knock it off. brian, go. he's just throwing things. i'm afraid he's going to...
operator: what is your husband's name?
caller: brian.
operator: brian, what's his last name?
caller: b-a-r-d-a-l-l.
operator: ann, is your vehicle in the roadway or is it off to the side?
caller: my daughter's in the car, and i'm afraid he's going to jump in front of a car or something.
operator: okay, ann, is your vehicle in the roadway or is it off to the side?
caller: it's off to the side. he's just having a freak out.
caller: i've given him his medicine, but it's going to take about an hour to kick in.
operator: okay, what kind of mental illness does he have?
caller: he's been diagnosed as bipolar.
operator: okay, how long ago did you give him the medicine?
caller: about 15 minutes ago. my daughter's in the car, and i'm afraid he's going to...
operator: okay, can you spell your husband's last name again?
caller: b-a-r-d-a-l-l.
caller: just come fast. i'm so scared.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can. okay, try to stay calm. are you able to stay at a safe distance?
caller: yes, but he's running in the road.
operator: okay, ann, is he thinking about committing suicide?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: has he injured your daughter at all?
caller: no, no. brian, stop!
caller: he's not listening. just sit down, please.
operator: ann, the right people are coming. they're coming as fast as they can.
caller: i'm so scared. i can't do this.
operator: ann, if it's safe to do so, i want you to try to get your daughter out of the car.
caller: no, i can't. she's locked in the car. i'm keeping her in there so he can't get in.
caller: brian, get out of the road!
operator: what direction is he going?
caller: up and down all around. he's directing traffic.
operator: stay out of the road, sweetie.
operator: they're coming lights and sirens as fast as they can.
operator: help is on the way.
operator: ann, if you can, keep your daughter safe and in the car.
operator: try to stay calm.
caller: i'm really scared he's going to jump in front of a moving car.
operator: i don't want you to go out into traffic to try to stop him. just stay with your daughter.
caller: i'm very concerned. please hurry.
operator: the officers are on their way. they're coming as fast as possible.
caller: he's still running across the road.
operator: try to keep him safe until help arrives. can you get other cars to slow down or stop?
caller: people are pulling over to help, but he's freaking out on them.
operator: ann, can you spell your last name for me again, please?
caller: c-a-r-d-o.
operator: ann, what is your home address?
caller: 1945 west university heights drive north in flagstaff, arizona.
operator: what is the zip code?
caller: 86001.
operator: what's your date of birth?
caller: 6/11/1980.
operator: and your husband's date of birth?
caller: 12/7/1976.
operator: you're doing a good job, ann. the officers will be there soon.
caller: i'm just so scared.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can, lights and sirens.
scenario:domestic
caller: he's running up and down the road.
operator: stay at a safe distance and keep your daughter inside the car.
caller: he's chasing cars now.
operator: the police are almost there.
caller: he's naked and not listening.
operator: keep yourself and your daughter safe.
caller: i see the police! they're here.
operator: they're there? all right, i'm going to let you go now. you did a great job, ann.
caller: thank you.
operator: ann, mile marker 18 on sr 59?
caller: yes, heading towards hilldale.
operator: okay, we'll let them know. thank you.
caller: thank you. bye-bye.
caller: i'm out here on the highway going toward hilldale, and there's a guy out here running around like he's crazy. he's stopping cars and stuff.
operator: and you're on sr-59? can you tell what mile marker you're at?
caller: i don't know, ma'am. it's about five or six miles out of hurricane.
operator: five to six miles out of hurricane and it's a male acting crazy?
caller: oh, he's going crazy out here, and i stopped, and his wife or his girlfriend said he... he's about six foot tall, has a beard, no shirt, black shorts.
operator: black shorts? okay, and is he saying anything specific?
caller: he flagged me down and then his girlfriend said he was going crazy.
operator: did he say his name?
caller: he didn't, ma'am.
operator: hold on one second, okay? don't hang up on me.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: should go out of now. i'll understand you know.
operator: what's going on?
caller: 56 nantucket.
operator: where are you at?
caller: 56 nantucket.
operator: what's the problem there?
caller: it's a fire. i'm pregnant.
operator: there's a fire in the house?
caller: yes, please come.
operator: okay, get outside the residence.
caller: i can't. i can't get out.
operator: you can't get out of the house?
caller: no, please.
operator: on the front, do i have somebody else get on the phone here?
caller: no. i don't know. i'm here. i'm in my wife.
operator: where's the fire?
caller: i don't know. i'm upstairs. please, help. please. please. please.
operator: is it a residential house fire at 56 nantucket with somebody trapped in the house?
caller: oh, my god.
operator: okay. are you in the bedroom?
caller: hello? hello? hello? stay on. please hurry.
operator: ma'am? ma'am?
operator: what's the problem? do you have a house on fire? get out of the house.
caller: ma'am. get out of the house.
operator: can you go to a bedroom window?
caller: okay.
operator: close the bedroom door, first of all.
caller: it is.
operator: okay, just calm down.
operator: stay low. go to the floor. the air is better down lower to the floor.
caller: okay.
operator: did you get to the window? can you open the window?
caller: i did.
caller: please help me. get me here. please.
operator: we're going to. are you in the house by yourself?
caller: yes. yes, please.
operator: we just want to make sure nobody else is in the house.
caller: i don't know if my dad's in here. i don't know. i was sleeping.
operator: you don't know if your dad may be in the house?
caller: okay.
operator: ma'am, get to the window. are you by the window?
caller: my head is out the window.
operator: okay, you're able to breathe out now, right?
caller: okay. now that window, does it face the back of the house?
caller: it's in front of the house.
operator: it's in front of the house?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, as long as you can breathe, you're okay, right?
caller: oh my god, please let me get me out.
operator: ma'am, there's people on the way. just remain calm. you have to stay composed. as long as you can breathe, you're okay.
operator: if it gets to a point where you can't breathe, then climb out the window. help is on the way.
caller: i'm pregnant. i'm nine months.
operator: they're going to do their best to help you out, okay?
caller: please.
operator: okay. now, you said your father may be in the house. what room would he be in?
caller: i don't know. i think he might be in the basement. please get me out.
operator: ma'am, what room would your father be in?
caller: he might be in the basement or his bedroom. his bedroom is right next door to my room.
operator: is his bedroom door closed or you don't know?
caller: i can't open my door.
operator: okay, stay with me, okay? we'll get some people to help you.
caller: please, i heard a falling noise. my dad might be trying to get here.
operator: okay, stop. stay on the line with me.
caller: what if my dad's in the basement or in his room? please.
operator: okay, you have to stay on the phone. don't hang up.
caller: i'm not. please help me. help me get out of here.
caller: i don't know if my dad is here.
caller: dad! dad! please, my dad!
caller: oh, my dad! oh, my god! oh, he's in there! please!
operator: okay, ma'am. calm down. is there firemen with you yet?
caller: no. only one. the house is big. we need more of them.
operator: they're coming, ma'am. please, you have to calm down, okay? if you want to help your father, you need to listen to me.
operator: you need to help your father by staying calm and following instructions.
caller: yes, yes, sir.
operator: the firemen are checking, okay? now you can breathe, you're okay, right?
caller: i need to call my mom.
operator: we'll get to that. right now, focus on staying safe.
operator: do you know where the fire started?
caller: oh my god. i don't know.
operator: do you have your head out the window?
caller: yes, i have my head out the window.
operator: okay, as long as you can breathe, you'll be okay. can you fit out the window if necessary?
caller: no, i can't. i'm pregnant. i can't climb out the window.
operator: you're okay, ma'am. as long as you can get air, you're okay.
caller: please.
operator: ma'am, do you know where the fire started?
caller: please get in here.
operator: ma'am, stay with me.
operator: are the firemen there with you yet?
caller: i can't see. there's smoke. my dad! help! get him out!
caller: please, i need help. help my dad!
operator: okay, ma'am. is there someone with you?
operator: are you able to see the firemen?
caller: no, i don't see them. please hurry.
operator: they're on their way, ma'am. stay calm.
caller: i don't know where my dad is.
operator: stay on the phone with me. help is coming.
caller: please get me out.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, that's, uh, what is this, like 1-10 grady avenue.
caller: it's behind the taylor grady house, at the town and gown's theater. a man just walked up and there were several gunshots.
operator: okay, sir, stay with me, okay?
operator: you said this happened at the taylor grady house?
caller: yes, it happened there.
operator: okay, on prince avenue?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: so someone started shooting off a gun at the taylor grady house, is that right?
caller: sir, listen to me. i need you to stay with me.
caller: okay, yes.
operator: i've got several other people calling. listen, stay with me.
operator: what does this guy look like?
caller: i don't know. i didn't see him.
operator: okay, you didn't see him? you just heard the shots?
caller: yeah, i was there, and he shot three people.
operator: he shot three people?
caller: yes. two gunshots to one man. it looks like one to the chest and another, and i think one to the chest.
operator: okay, where is this guy now? where did he go?
operator: did anybody see where he ran? i need a description: white guy, black guy?
caller: yeah, white guy.
operator: anybody have a description, does anybody see what he looks like?
operator: tell them if they're calling 999, they need to hang up and just tell you what's going on first.
operator: i need a description of the guy right now. white male, black male, hispanic male, quickly.
caller: white male, white male.
operator: okay, about how old? can anybody describe what he looks like?
caller: i didn't see him. here, hold on.
caller: white male, 50s, goatee, beard, wearing blue shorts and a t-shirt.
operator: which way did he go?
caller: he headed towards prince avenue, away from downtown.
operator: are you talking to an officer?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: go ahead and talk to him. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my name's mickey. i'm the manager at the mcdonald's on vine street.
operator: what's going on, mickey?
caller: there's a woman here; she has a gun.
operator: she has a gun?
caller: yes, and i need to evacuate the whole building.
operator: okay, where is she at? is she inside?
caller: she's right here in front of me.
operator: okay, tell me what she looks like.
caller: she's about five-three, maybe 120 pounds, brown hair, maybe 45 to 50 years old.
operator: and she's standing right in front of you?
caller: yes.
operator: just stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: and you're at the first counter?
caller: yes, right at the first counter.
operator: does she say what's wrong with her?
caller: no, she said she doesn't want anybody to come in, that she wants to talk to somebody outside.
operator: will she go outside when they get there?
caller: i'll go halfway. she said i have to stay with her.
operator: okay, what is your name?
caller: my name's mickey.
operator: mickey, who else is in there?
caller: right now i have customers and about 10 crew people.
operator: i need you to get everyone to leave. can you do that?
caller: i'm going to lock the doors. i've got some people coming out.
operator: are there any other employees in there?
caller: yes, there are other employees in the back.
operator: i'm going to ask them to leave, okay? stand by.
caller: i'm trying to get everyone out. she is still with me at the front of the store.
operator: will she tell you her name?
caller: her name is noelle.
operator: okay, does she want to talk to the police or anyone else?
caller: she wants to talk to someone in person but does not want to come outside.
operator: can you describe what she's wearing?
caller: i'm not sure; she's standing behind me.
operator: are the employees heading out the side door?
caller: yes, they are.
operator: keep them going, don't let anyone else inside.
caller: noelle, do you want to tell me what's going on?
caller: i just want to make a statement.
operator: does she want to talk to a police officer?
caller: yes, she wants to talk to a police officer at the door.
operator: can you see if she has a gun on her?
caller: it's in my back.
operator: okay, mickey, just stay calm and keep listening to me. we're going to help you both.
caller: noelle says she has mental illness and she's been struggling.
operator: mickey, just keep her calm. let her talk and keep listening to her.
caller: noelle, you're going to be okay.
caller: i've had these feelings of paranoia, like people are in my apartment.
operator: mickey, is she still standing behind you?
caller: yes, she wants me to go outside now.
operator: do you feel safe doing that?
caller: as long as she comes with me.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me as long as you can.
caller: we're outside. i don't want to hurt anybody.
operator: stay calm and keep talking to her.
operator: mickey? are you still there?
caller: yes, we're outside but far from the phone.
operator: stay on the phone as long as you can. help is on the way.
caller: i hear shots.
operator: what is happening now?
caller: more shots. people are down.
operator: stay calm, mickey. rescue is coming.
operator: mickey, stay on the phone. where are you now?
caller: i'm in the parking lot. all employees are out and safe.
operator: stay with your crew. go near their cars and wait for the officers.
caller: okay, the officers are calling me over.
operator: alright, mickey. go talk to the officers. you're safe now.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. take care.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i live in lepente, and i think someone's trying to come in.
operator: okay, i just heard the window break. hold on. what's your address?
caller: huh? cross street.
operator: what's your cross street?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: okay, do you think someone's trying to come in right now?
caller: yeah.
operator: what are you hearing?
caller: well, they kept on ringing the doorbell.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: give me one second. let me look up your address.
operator: okay, where are you at right now?
caller: i'm in my parents' bedroom.
operator: okay, stay on the line, don't hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: you said someone was ringing the doorbell?
caller: they kept on ringing the doorbell, and i've been looking out the window for cars, but there's no cars outside. and then i heard them banging on the window, and then all of a sudden i heard glass shatter.
operator: so you heard someone banging on the window and glass shattering?
caller: yeah.
operator: stay on the line, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: what are you hearing now?
caller: i think someone's in the house.
operator: where do you think they're at?
caller: towards the other side of the house, like where my bedroom and my sister's bedroom are at.
operator: how many people do you hear?
caller: i think it's just one, but i don't hear them talking.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: what else can you hear?
caller: i don't know. i can't hear anything anymore.
operator: okay, where are you in the bedroom?
caller: i'm over here towards the front of the house next to the window.
operator: is there a closet you can go into?
caller: there is, but there's too much stuff in it. they'll probably hear me.
operator: okay, where are you in your mom's room?
caller: in the corner. if you go through the house, you see that there's a window, and i'm right there.
operator: are you calling me from a cell phone or a landline?
caller: i'm calling from a phone from the house.
operator: okay, can you hear anything else?
caller: not much.
operator: can you hear if doors are opening?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: which window broke? where did you hear the shattering from?
caller: my sister's window. it's on the other side of the house.
operator: okay, if the deputies were coming to the front, how would they see the broken window so they know where the person possibly came in?
caller: from the front door, if you're facing it, to your left all the way up on the far side, you'll see this window.
operator: okay, you haven't heard any more doors open or shut?
caller: no.
operator: okay, what are you wearing?
caller: i'm wearing blue jeans and a white t-shirt.
operator: a white t-shirt and what color pants?
caller: blue. skinny jeans.
operator: okay. how can the deputies get into the house?
caller: my parents always said not to let anybody in, but i'll try to unlock the door.
operator: okay, are you hearing anything new?
caller: no.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm only 15.
operator: okay, he's not hearing anything right now.
operator: the deputies are on their way, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: how many times did they ring the doorbell?
caller: a few times over, let's say, three minutes, like over and over.
operator: and when you went to the door, what happened?
caller: i didn't, my mom said not to open the door for anybody.
operator: did you look out?
caller: yeah, i tried to, but there's no peephole or window to look through.
operator: okay, are you hearing anything new?
caller: i could have sworn i heard someone walking around, but that could have just been my mind.
operator: okay, they're in the house?
caller: yeah.
operator: how are you certain they're in the house?
caller: i hear footsteps in the kitchen.
operator: he's hearing footsteps in the kitchen.
caller: i don't know if i can open the door without them finding me.
operator: okay, just stay quiet, okay?
caller: please come.
operator: is there a bed you could go under?
caller: i'm trying to.
operator: take the phone with you, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: are you under the bed?
caller: i'm trying, but i'm too big.
operator: can you grab a blanket and throw it over you?
caller: all right.
operator: keep the phone with you.
caller: i can't fit under the bed, i'm too big.
operator: do you have some blankets or something to disguise yourself?
caller: i'm trying to run out.
operator: okay, what else do you hear?
caller: nothing much.
operator: thank you. are the deputies there yet?
caller: we have one unit out in the front.
operator: if you hear them come in the bedroom, let me know. stay where you are and stay on the line, okay?
caller: okay, there's a deputy in the front.
operator: they're waiting for another unit to get there to enter the house.
caller: all right.
operator: are you hearing anything new?
caller: not sure. they could be looking for something or walking out.
operator: okay. just know that the deputies are there, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: he's not hearing anything right now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i live at 301 south 2nd street.
operator: mm-hmm.
caller: i've got a gentleman here that says there's been some gunshots fired outside.
operator: okay. did you hear them yourself, or did you?
caller: no, i didn't. the gentleman is right here. he wants to talk to you.
operator: okay, put him on.
caller: hello?
operator: okay, you heard gunshots?
caller: yeah, i was inside my house, and my sister-in-law's boyfriend came and started shooting everybody. i had to jump off the roof.
operator: you saw the person doing this?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, where at?
caller: 309 south 2nd street.
operator: what's the person's name that's shooting?
caller: roberto.
operator: is he still there with the gun?
caller: i think so. he's at 309. i went onto the roof and jumped out.
operator: he's upstairs shooting?
caller: he started shooting my wife and all the kids. he started shooting.
operator: at 309 south 2nd street, he's shooting your wife and kids?
caller: yes, he's shooting my wife, and i don't know about the others.
operator: okay. so he's still at the house, right?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, hold on for a moment.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: good enough avenue. someone is running around the neighborhood shooting a gun.
operator: okay. are they on foot or in a car?
caller: i don't know. i'm back in my house. i can't tell. i think they're running on foot.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm at 2393 good enough avenue.
operator: okay.
caller: but they're on the floor, you guys.
operator: do you know if it's a male or a female? do you have any description?
caller: i don't know. my husband went outside. i'm in the house with my kids. let me look out the window.
operator: okay. please don't put yourself in any danger. they are en route. okay. what's your name?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: aventon, i'm in an emergency. do you need police, fire, or ambulance?
operator: i can help you. what seems to be the problem?
caller: i have just smothered my wife.
operator: okay, sir. i need some information from you. what's your name?
caller: my name is noel lavery.
operator: and your address?
caller: we live at 9-6 millbourne road east.
operator: okay, can you confirm your name again?
caller: my name is noel lavery.
operator: what's your date of birth, noel?
caller: 15th of july 1928.
operator: okay, i need to gather some information. was your wife ill, sir?
caller: she was a very chronic alcoholic.
operator: was she drunk tonight?
caller: yes, she was.
operator: what is her name?
caller: her name was sherry, s-h-e-r-r-y, lavery.
operator: where is she now, in the house?
caller: in bed. i'm beside her.
operator: okay, in the bedroom?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she was 50, almost 51.
operator: is she breathing at all?
caller: no, she's not. i put a pillow on her face and held it until she stopped.
operator: did you have an argument with her tonight?
caller: no, it wasn't an argument.
operator: okay. can you tell me more?
caller: my wife has been a chronic alcoholic for quite some time. there's a whole medical history that will come out.
operator: okay, what prompted you to do it tonight?
caller: i've been to my meeting for sobriety. sherry has been in and out of hospital with chronic alcoholism for a long time.
operator: i understand.
caller: we drank tonight and talked about it. my wife is now dead. i killed her. there is no argument or dispute about that.
operator: was it a mutual decision or was it your decision?
caller: we talked about it. she said she couldn't promise a cure for alcoholism.
operator: i see. please stay on the line.
caller: i put a pillow over her face. she didn't feel any pain because she was very drunk, and i held it until she stopped breathing.
operator: okay. is anyone else in the house?
caller: yes, my son-in-law is here trying to give her cpr.
operator: okay, police are on their way. please stay calm.
caller: get the police here as quickly as you can. i am not denying anything.
operator: they're on their way. who am i speaking to?
caller: noel lavery. there's no point in continuing this conversation. what is done is done.
operator: i appreciate your honesty. we will be there soon.
caller: thank you.
operator: is your son-in-law there? what's his name?
caller: his name is kevin. he rushed in to try and give cpr.
operator: did he live there?
caller: no, he came from work. he's a shift worker. my wife's daughter from my previous marriage called him.
operator: alright, noel. i'm here. please stay on the line until help arrives.
caller: there's nothing more to do.
operator: i understand, but please stay on the line.
caller: alright. thank you for your help.
operator: we're here for you, noel.
operator: 9-9-9, where's your emergency?
caller: well, i'm on 41 going south. i just crossed chamberlain, and a man pulled up next to me. there was a child screaming in his car.
operator: what kind of vehicle is it?
caller: it's a blue camaro, like from the 90s or early 2000s or something.
operator: was it a baby or a child?
caller: no, it was a child. it's dark, but i turned to look. the driver is a white male, light-colored hair, sort of plump. he's behind me now. i tried to slow down so he could pass me and i could read his license plate.
operator: okay, ma'am, don't hang up, okay?
caller: i'm not.
operator: where are you now?
caller: i'm just crossing jinx drive. i'm going very slow, like 45 miles an hour on 41.
operator: and he's behind you?
caller: i think so. he hasn't passed me, and he's going slower than i am, which is odd because we're holding up traffic. i think he saw me looking at him. he's going even slower now.
operator: are you pulling over?
caller: no, something's going on because he's going even slower now. okay, he's pulling over to the other lane now.
operator: can you give me your name and cell phone number?
caller: my name is jane kowalski, k-o-w-a-l-s-k-i. my cell phone number is 813-205-4100.
caller: oh shit, he's turning left on toledo blade. he's turning left right now.
operator: he's turning left onto toledo blade, and you said it's a blue camaro with a white male driver?
caller: yes, and there's a kid in the back seat banging on the window. the child looked between 5 and 10 years old, definitely not an infant.
operator: about how old do you think the child is?
caller: i'd say less than 10, maybe between 5 to 10 years old.
operator: okay, do you want to try to follow him?
caller: i don't know if i can catch up. there's a lot of traffic and i can't get over. the child was screaming, like a 'get me out of here' scream.
operator: blue or black camaro with a white male driver, light-colored hair. got it. thanks for calling this in.
caller: i'm way past them now and i wouldn't be able to catch up. i didn't want to put myself at risk.
operator: alright, jane. and you're driving a silver mercedes?
caller: yes, a silver mercedes 380.
operator: thank you. are you in a safe place?
caller: i just pulled over into the toys 'r' us parking lot at the town center mall.
operator: okay, please stay there and keep your doors locked.
caller: okay, i'm in my car with the doors locked.
operator: thank you, jane. we'll have someone follow up with you if needed.
caller: alright, thank you. i just wanted to make sure i called it in.
operator: you did the right thing. thank you for calling.
caller: god, i hope everything turns out okay.
operator: we have your number. if we need more information, we'll call you back. thank you.
caller: alright, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes.
operator: where is your emergency, sir?
caller: okay, i live at 201 rushing way, building 1042 in myrtle beach.
operator: okay.
caller: and my neighbor just knocked on my door, and her husband is missing.
caller: we went down to where the mailbox is at, and there's blood and his glasses are there.
operator: okay. which building are you in? your phone cut out, sir.
caller: building 1042.
operator: what's the apartment number?
caller: it's 201 rushing way, building 1042.
operator: okay, she's over there with you?
caller: yes, it's her in the background, crying in my car.
operator: all right, talk to me, please.
caller: okay, the neighbor came over to me, said her husband was missing.
caller: so i went and looked for him and didn't see him. he never does this. he's not that kind of guy.
caller: she noticed that the keys to the mailbox were missing. we went over there and saw blood on the ground and his glasses.
caller: we didn't touch anything. but we noticed it looks like a trail.
operator: okay, blood on the ground and the glasses are there?
caller: yes, and the trail leads towards the bushes but we didn't go look in there.
operator: okay, please stay on the phone with me.
caller: all right.
operator: so there's a trail of blood leading back to the woods?
caller: yes, right. we didn't touch anything. i made her get back in the car and drove her back here.
operator: okay, i'm sending somebody.
caller: all right. can you give me directions on how to get here?
operator: sure, go ahead.
caller: river oaks drive into berkshire forest. turn left on augusta plantation.
operator: okay, and then keep going straight?
caller: yes, take another left at mary lee bone and come around past the swimming pool, and it's a townhouse at 201 rushing way.
operator: got it. were there mailboxes or anything like that on the way?
caller: no, i didn't see anything else.
operator: all right, what's the missing person's name?
caller: fred ingalls. f-r-e-d i-n-g-l-e-s.
operator: what's he look like?
caller: he's about six-foot, six-foot-three, tall. last seen a little while ago.
operator: it's 12:45 in the morning. what time did she last see him?
caller: around 10 pm. they had pizza together inside the house.
operator: you still there, right?
caller: yes.
operator: does she need an ambulance?
caller: yes, please.
operator: all right, i'll get that arranged. can you give me your last name?
caller: rickerson. r-i-c-k-e-r-s-o-n.
operator: first name?
caller: thomas. first name thomas.
operator: thank you, thomas. do you know of any reason why he would be missing? is he involved in anything?
caller: no, no. we're not that kind of people.
operator: all right.
caller: okay, she's really upset.
operator: we're not going down there without the police. police are on their way.
caller: have you tried calling out for him or anything?
operator: yes, we've done that.
operator: does he have his wallet or anything? is that missing, or does he have it with him?
scenario:traffic
caller: no, he has all that. he just went to check the mail.
operator: and there's blood and glasses on the ground?
caller: that's correct.
operator: the police are coming in now. talk with them, all right?
caller: all right, thanks.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. my name is special agent richard a. smith, badge number 0931 with the united states illuminati order.
operator: uh-huh.
caller: right now, i am currently stuck inside the air conditioning unit on top of the knoxville museum of art, downtown at the world's fair park.
caller: i was here trying to complete an operation that went terribly wrong. i've got myself into a position that i can't get out of and i can't contact my superiors. i need the rescue squad to come and get me out immediately, please.
operator: okay, where are you at again? the museum?
caller: the knoxville museum of art.
operator: okay, and you said it's next to the world's fair park, correct?
caller: yes, on top of the roof. there's a ventilator shaft that leads to the main air conditioning unit. i've got a rope going down to it and i'm stuck at the very bottom. it's very narrow and i can't get back up. i'll need a harness and a rope about 45 to 50 feet.
operator: okay, what's your phone number, sir?
caller: my phone number is area code 865.
operator: okay, hold on.
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: see, your mic, give me a tango hotel 423. please respond.
operator: yes, sir.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, who are you with again?
caller: special agent richard a. smith, badge number 0931 with the united states illuminati order.
operator: i'm sorry, the united states what?
caller: illuminati order. you won't find that on your national...
operator: all right, the illuminati order, correct?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, we'll go ahead and get this over to dispatch, okay?
caller: thank you, timely.
operator: all right, bye-bye.
caller: bye-bye.
caller: yes, ma'am. this is special agent richard a. smith, badge number 0931 with the united states illuminati order, someone just called me from this number.
operator: okay, hold on one second, sir.
caller: thank you.
operator: uh-huh.
operator: okay, sir?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: i'm just trying to find your exact location. how can i assist them with that?
caller: okay, exactly, there's just one ac unit on the roof. when they get on the roof, there's only one main unit. once they get to the front side of it where the pipe goes down into the roof, it goes down about 45 to 50 feet. i'm at the bottom of that. i can hear them on the roof.
operator: okay, hold on, sir.
caller: thank you.
operator: okay, sir. they're going to get the ladder truck up there, okay?
caller: thank you very much.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
caller: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling about a friend who lives at 6155 gray street. i've been told her boyfriend is assaulting her.
operator: okay, what's her name?
caller: her name is ashley.
operator: and the boyfriend is beating her up?
caller: yes, that's what i was told. she called a friend in broomfield, and they told me to check on her.
operator: alright. what's your name?
caller: my name is b.
operator: and what's your phone number?
caller: i don't know off the top of my head.
operator: okay, so this information is third-party?
caller: yeah, but she has a son and she's in trouble.
operator: alright, it's in the basement of 6155 gray street, correct?
caller: yes, there's an outside entrance from the garage on the south side.
operator: we'll send someone over there.
caller: thank you.
operator: what is your current location?
caller: i don't know.
caller: i have a hostage. if you don't tell your people to back off, she's going to die.
operator: please stay calm. let's talk this through.
caller: get them away from the house now, or the hostage is dead.
operator: sir, stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: i'm watching them. they're not leaving.
operator: we need to communicate to get this resolved. please stay with me.
caller: they're not leaving. i'm losing my temper.
operator: i understand. tell me your name so we can talk.
caller: it doesn't matter what my name is. keep them away from the house.
operator: we are going to do everything we can to help you. please, talk to me.
caller: get them away from this house now.
operator: what is the hostage's name?
caller: it doesn't matter now.
operator: what kind of weapon do you have?
caller: i'm hanging up if they don't leave. i promise you bad things will happen.
operator: please stay with me. we need to work this out.
caller: why are they still around the house? you're not getting this.
operator: i'm trying my best. tell me what you need.
caller: get them away from the house right now.
operator: we are doing everything we can. please stay on the line.
caller: i'm about to start hurting the hostage.
operator: please, we need to resolve this peacefully. don't hurt anyone.
caller: i'm done talking.
operator: sir, do not hang up. we can work this out.
caller: this is it. i'm done.
operator: please, talk to me. i just want to help.
caller: why are they still around the house? do you want this little girl hurt?
operator: i just got here. let's work this through.
caller: i'm done. i'm hanging up.
operator: please, don't hang up. we can find a solution.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my parents were shot.
operator: your parents were shot? where are you now?
caller: i'm at 4240-47 avenue.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: alex.
operator: alex, how old are you?
caller: i'm 14.
operator: where are your parents now?
caller: they're in the bathroom.
operator: who shot your parents?
caller: i did.
operator: you did? okay, stay on the line with me. how did this happen?
caller: i was sleeping, and the next thing i knew, the gun was in my hands and my parents were on the ground.
operator: is there anyone else in the house with you?
caller: no, it's just us.
operator: are they breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: can you check for me?
caller: okay.
operator: where did you shoot your parents?
caller: i shot my dad in the shoulder. i don't know where i hit my mom.
operator: can you try calling your dad? see if he responds.
caller: dad! dad! dad! he's not responding.
operator: alex, where is the gun now?
caller: it's in the bathroom.
operator: okay, we're going to get you some help. can you stay on the line with me?
caller: okay.
operator: are there any other weapons in the house?
caller: no, it's just the one gun.
operator: are you on any type of medication?
caller: no.
operator: were you upset with your parents before this happened?
caller: no, i wasn't upset.
operator: okay, what is your last name, alex?
caller: crain. c-r-a-i-n.
operator: when's your date of birth?
caller: july 19th, 1996.
operator: what are you wearing right now?
caller: i'm wearing mesh shorts and a jacket.
operator: okay, can you go outside and wait for us? make sure you don't have any weapons on you.
caller: okay. i'm going outside.
operator: are you white, black, or hispanic?
caller: white.
operator: let me know when you see the police.
caller: okay, i'm outside.
operator: do you see them yet?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: okay, hang in there. they're on their way. how many times did the gun go off?
caller: twice.
operator: is there a car in the driveway?
caller: yes, a gray truck and a blue truck in the back.
operator: do you hear any sirens?
caller: yes.
operator: are you at the end of the driveway?
caller: no, i'm near the front door.
operator: are you outside?
caller: yes, i'm walking down the driveway now.
operator: okay, let me know when you see the police.
caller: i see them now.
operator: put your hands up, alex. put the phone down if you need to and put your hands up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
caller: i'm gonna hurt myself.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm on n 11th st, fresno, california.
operator: do you have an address?
caller: 1120 n 11th st.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is charles.
caller: i'm beside a white ford.
operator: i show 1120 n 11th st is not a valid address. can you confirm?
caller: it's my old house.
operator: i'm sorry to hear that. why do you want to hurt yourself, charles?
caller: it's just time for me to die. she's always been a butthead.
operator: who's being a butthead?
caller: just someone i know.
operator: okay, are you armed at all?
caller: yes.
operator: what are you armed with?
caller: i have a 9mm and two knives.
operator: what are you wearing right now?
caller: black dodger shirt, blue jeans, and white tennis shoes.
operator: have you been doing drugs or drinking today?
caller: no drugs, just drinking.
operator: how much have you had to drink?
caller: a good amount.
operator: are you home alone? is there anybody else there with you?
caller: i'm by myself.
operator: where are you at on the property?
caller: i'll wait right here. i won't go anywhere.
operator: what's your birthday?
caller: may 17, 1966.
operator: what's your last name, charles?
caller: salinas. s-a-l-i-n-a-s.
operator: so you're going to wait by the street for them?
caller: i'm going to wait right in front of my old house.
operator: did you get there in a car or on foot?
caller: i walked. i've been walking for days.
operator: and where were you living before you went back to your old house?
caller: i had to come home. this is where i was supposed to die.
operator: and you don't have any family members, mom, dad, brothers, sisters?
caller: everybody's dead.
operator: when officers get there, can you put your weapons down, hide them somewhere, get them away from you?
caller: i'm not going to hurt anybody. i just want them to know that.
operator: i need you to make sure you put those weapons down, though.
caller: there's no way they'll shoot me unless i move aggressively. i just need them to know i'm not going to hurt them.
operator: is there anybody else around you right now?
caller: no, ma'am, there's nobody around me.
operator: can you move somewhere safer?
caller: i'll stay where i'm at.
operator: it's a residential area, right? where would you move to that's safer?
caller: i don't know, i'll just stay here.
operator: alright, just stay where you are. the officers will be there soon.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're at the brightleaf flea market.
operator: what's the address? do you know?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: okay, and you're calling from a mobile phone?
caller: yes, 999.
operator: and what's the problem?
caller: we're missing a child.
operator: you're missing a child? how old is the child?
caller: three years old.
operator: which flea market are you at?
caller: the one on brightleaf. the big one, i can't think of the name.
operator: is it the one with the shelters outside the building?
caller: yeah, the brightleaf market.
operator: are you able to ask someone nearby for the physical address?
caller: i think it's 2320.
operator: how did you get that address?
caller: it's on the sign outside.
operator: okay, got it. and what is your name?
caller: keanu hawkins.
operator: alright, hang on just a moment.
operator: how long has the child been missing?
caller: about almost two hours, an hour and a half.
operator: alright. does the child have any medical or mental conditions?
caller: i don't think so.
operator: alright, can you provide a description of the child?
caller: he's short with black hair.
operator: what is his race?
caller: he's partly asian, partly caucasian.
operator: okay, and he is male?
caller: yes.
operator: what was he wearing?
caller: a blue shirt with a yellow truck on it, blue sweatpants, and blue sneakers.
operator: what's his name?
caller: his nickname is rajee, but his full name is siraj munir.
operator: can you spell his first name for me?
caller: s-i-r-a-j.
operator: and his last name?
caller: davenport.
operator: how tall is he?
caller: he's a little higher than my knees.
operator: how much does he weigh?
caller: probably about 35 pounds.
operator: what color is his hair?
caller: black.
operator: what color are his eyes?
caller: brown.
scenario:robbery
operator: when did you last see him?
caller: around 11:45 am.
operator: has he ever been missing before?
caller: no.
operator: did he have any personal items with him, like a toy?
caller: no.
operator: where are you standing right now?
caller: i'm standing outside the brightleaf flea market with my cell phone.
operator: have you asked the people in the market if they have seen him?
caller: yes, they announced it inside but no one has seen him.
operator: what's your name?
caller: rosa. last name thomason.
operator: what color shirt are you wearing?
caller: a black shirt with a print on it, black pants, and sandals.
operator: what is your race?
caller: i'm asian.
operator: alright, stay there. an officer is on their way.
operator: do you see the officer arriving?
caller: yes, i see them.
operator: alright, flag them down so they can see you.
caller: they see me now. i'm talking to them.
operator: okay, i'm going to hang up now. thank you.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're at the entrance to the airport, south entrance just before the turn.
operator: are you by the south u-turn or near the main entrance?
caller: there's a tsa agent that looks like he's having a heart attack or a stroke.
operator: where exactly are you?
caller: we're on the road that goes into the airport, right before the major turn.
operator: are you on the bridge?
caller: no, we're before the bridge.
operator: which way were you coming from?
caller: we're coming from 360 onto the airport.
operator: okay, hang on a minute. you said you think he's having a heart attack?
caller: yes, he slumped over in his truck.
operator: all right, please hold.
operator: fort worth police in 002, this is donna with the airport fire department, police and fire. we need an ambulance for a tsa agent having a heart attack at the south entrance.
operator: we're aware of it.
operator: okay, thank you. an ambulance is on the way.
caller: thank you very much.
operator: you're welcome. bye.
operator: fort worth police in 002, this is donna with the airport fire department, police and fire. do you have an eta for your fire people for the accident?
operator: um, i don’t. hang on just a second. let me find the call. it’s trinity, and they're en route right now. i don't have an eta, though. i just know they’re en route.
operator: okay, very good. thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: fort worth police, 0034.
operator: hey, this is amber at airport dps. that call we transferred earlier about a one-car collision with a male subject possible heart attack, we have two officers out with him now. he is unconscious with shallow breathing.
operator: do you have an officer en route?
operator: yes, at eamon carter, the transition to international parkway.
operator: okay, i've got it at 820 in trinity. is that it?
operator: no, it’s actually eamon carter and international parkway.
operator: okay, let me update that. what kind of vehicle?
operator: it is a 2008 toyota pickup with a disabled plate.
operator: i’ll add that to the call.
operator: amber, this is stephanie. i've got an accident at eamon and international; is medstar en route?
operator: yes, it’s a male tsa employee, and he was unconscious when officers arrived on the scene.
operator: we're sending an ambulance now. do you need anything else?
operator: no, i think we're good. thank you.
operator: okay, bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: ronald 999 with the location of the emergency.
caller: this is callow. we're at the best western off of 114. someone has been shot in the neck. they're going to need medical assistance.
operator: go ahead, sir.
caller: yes, sir.
operator: let me get denton county on the line to get you an ambulance. what room are they in?
operator: sir, what room are they in?
caller: they're not in a room, we're out at the pool right now. the pool area.
operator: denton county 999.
caller: yes, ma'am. this is brooke up at the transfer. we need an ambulance. we have a shooting at the best western.
operator: sir, what's the address there?
caller: ma'am, i'm not sure of the exact address. it's 377 and 114.
operator: okay, what's going on there, sir?
caller: i'm an off-duty officer. somebody got a hold of my gun. it's 801 west byron nelson.
operator: 801 west byron nelson?
caller: i'm not sure. it's 377 and 114, but somebody got a hold of my gun and shot somebody.
operator: okay, so somebody took your weapon and shot somebody else in the neck?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay. where's the weapon at now, sir?
caller: i have it in my custody.
operator: okay, you have it in your custody. where's the person that did the shooting?
caller: he is right here next to me. it's... it's fine. he didn't understand it was an off-duty weapon.
operator: i have an ambulance on the way. what is your name, sir?
caller: okay, what's going on? there's an argument.
caller: why, god! why!
operator: sir, who is yelling?
caller: hello? hello, who did you have me call?
operator: sir, who is yelling?
operator: sir?
operator: sir?
caller: yes, ma'am. i need to talk to you. i don't need to talk to him. the person that is shot.
operator: the person that was shot, where are they?
caller: she's right on the ground and a nurse is doing cpr on her.
operator: cpr is in progress?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: listen, please. don't hang up and listen to me. i've been taken out of my house at gunpoint.
operator: what is the address?
caller: please, i am on the road. he's got me with my kids.
operator: ma'am, what is the address?
caller: i'm heading to the police department. i was able to escape.
operator: ma'am, you need to slow down because i don't know where you are. which police department?
caller: i don't know, please. hold on.
operator: hold on one second, ma'am. just stay on the line.
operator: okay, what's the address?
operator: where is plantation police department?
caller: tell somebody to intercept me on 6th street.
operator: what's the problem, ma'am?
caller: he took me out of my shower. i'm on the road now.
operator: do you know him?
caller: yes, his name is carlos.
operator: is he armed?
caller: yes, he has a gun.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: he's accelerating on me!
operator: i need you to stay calm. what kind of car are you in?
caller: help, he's going to shoot me!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know what the address is, but it appears to be south of the 118 and canoga or topanga, and there's a big plume of black smoke.
operator: so it's near canoga boulevard and the 118?
caller: i believe so. it might be between canoga and topanga.
operator: the 118, the ronald reagan, on the los angeles side?
caller: yes, that's correct. this is near simi valley.
operator: simi valley? i'm not seeing anything in that area. so you see some black smoke there?
caller: yes, i just saw a big plume of black smoke.
operator: okay. it looks like we have a big traffic accident. maybe, can you confirm the location again?
caller: it looks like it's near oregon and rinaldi and canoga. below the freeway almost.
operator: we're getting a number of calls on it. it looks like there's a bad traffic accident there with fire.
caller: alright.
operator: okay, ma'am, please calm down. you are not involved in the accident, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: alright. we've got people on the way there now.
caller: okay, okay.
operator: ma'am, is this a train versus another train or a train versus a vehicle?
caller: train versus another train. people are bleeding and hurt here.
operator: stay with me on the line, ma'am. we're already on the way there now.
caller: okay.
operator: the fire department and police are on the way now. if you want to stay and help, please do not let anyone get close to that train.
caller: okay.
operator: if you see people jumping out or moving, you can assist them, but do not get close to the fire.
caller: okay.
operator: don't put yourself in danger. if you feel like you can help, do so, but prioritize your safety.
caller: okay.
operator: make sure to not block the intersection with your vehicle. stay clear and keep others away.
caller: okay.
operator: the police and department of transportation are on their way.
caller: are they coming to my house or to the train?
operator: they are coming to the train location, but will need your address as a reference.
caller: okay, i've got them on now.
operator: 999, what's the address of your emergency?
caller: there was a train collision outside our metrolink, right by our campus. they came out of the topanga tunnel.
operator: can you tell how many people are hurt?
caller: i don't know. we heard it from our campus. we haven't been down there yet.
operator: we already have units on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: can you tell me what you see exactly?
caller: the metrolink train and a freight train collided. the metrolink train has derailed. there are people screaming.
operator: metrolink versus freight train and people are screaming?
caller: yes, it's derailed, and the first car is torn up. there's a fire.
operator: which train is on fire?
caller: the freight train.
operator: and is there anyone lying outside the train?
caller: not right now.
operator: alright, we have help on the way. stay on the line with me.
caller: okay.
operator: fire department, 9-9-9, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: yes, i'm on the metrolink train. we just left chatsworth station heading towards simi valley. we had a collision with something. there are many people bleeding and on the floor.
operator: can you give me an intersection or something close to your location?
caller: we are almost at the first tunnel going towards simi valley.
operator: so you're on the metrolink train heading towards simi valley from chatsworth?
caller: yes, we just collided with something. there are many people injured and bleeding.
operator: are you in simi valley now?
caller: no, we're at the end of chatsworth, probably.
operator: hold on a second, sir. don't hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: county fire, you guys handle calls in simi valley, correct?
caller: i'm right next to the chatsworth school.
operator: is that near heather lee lane and dora?
caller: yes, somewhere around there.
operator: okay, we have units on the way. do you know how many people are hurt?
caller: i can see about seven or eight people who are bleeding and on the floor in my car.
operator: hold on a second, don't hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: are you hurt?
caller: no, but several people are bleeding. we're trying to help them.
operator: alright, we have paramedics on the way. can you tell me how many people are hurt?
caller: one, two, three, maybe six or seven people in my car.
operator: how many cars are on the metrolink train?
caller: there are three cars on this train.
operator: can you tell me if anyone is unconscious?
caller: i see one person who might be.
operator: try not to move anyone unless it's absolutely necessary. if anyone is bleeding, use a clean cloth and apply firm pressure until help arrives.
caller: we'll do what we can. we're trying to get people out who can move.
operator: stay on the line so we can ensure help arrives at the right location.
caller: okay.
operator: who's screaming?
caller: a person in a wheelchair flew down the stairs from the top to the bottom.
operator: is anyone getting to her?
caller: she's strapped in the wheelchair on her back, but she seems okay.
operator: can anyone get her deputy for me?
caller: we're close to the santa susana pass, a little east of it, making the turn towards the first tunnel in simi valley.
operator: are you hurt, sir?
caller: my elbow feels funny, but nothing serious. the last car is almost completely destroyed.
operator: you said the back car is pretty much mangled?
caller: yes, it looks completely destroyed. there might be many fatalities.
operator: let me know when you see any fire trucks.
caller: i hear them but don't see them yet.
operator: stay calm. help is coming. can you assist people without hurting yourself further?
caller: yes, we are trying to help where we can.
operator: alright. we have units on scene now. help other people move to a safe area if you can do so safely.
caller: okay, i need to turn this off to help.
operator: that's fine. take care of yourself.
caller: alright, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my daughter is choking on a bouncy ball.
operator: okay, and you're at 25-25 north 10th street?
caller: yes.
operator: is she able to breathe?
caller: no.
operator: okay, i'm going to get the ambulance on the way. somebody will guide you through the heimlich maneuver. stay on the line, okay?
caller: yep.
operator: how old is she?
caller: seven.
operator: okay, are you able to get behind her?
caller: is she okay? no.
operator: it's okay. is she really turning purple?
caller: no, that's my three-year-old.
operator: okay, can you have someone stand behind her?
caller: my son is behind her right now.
operator: okay, wrap his arms around her abdomen. right around her abdomen. and then lift up and towards him.
caller: oh my god, she's about to pass out.
operator: okay, lift up and towards him. up and towards her. keep going.
caller: oh my god, she's turning red now!
operator: okay. my partner has the ambulance on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: okay, tell me what's going on right now.
caller: are you okay? keep going up and towards her right into her abdomen. a little bit higher than the abdomen. you're hurting her. i can't do it.
operator: you keep trying. oh my god, i cannot watch this. keep going. the ambulance is on its way.
caller: she's crying.
operator: she is crying. that means she's getting some air. that's good.
caller: she got it out. she puked it out.
operator: thank god. excellent.
caller: oh my god.
operator: they're going to still come over and check on her to make sure she's okay.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: all right. they're on the way. i'm going to let you go then.
caller: thank you very much.
operator: you're very welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, i mean, it's, i'll use an emergency that the ams and fire department will probably be involved before death.
operator: do you need a rescue unit?
caller: okay, do you need an officer?
caller: i need, really, i guess i need both, because my wife accidentally got shot.
operator: what? who's dead?
caller: my wife.
operator: she's dead?
scenario:traffic
caller: yeah, i'm sure.
operator: is she in the house with you?
caller: i'm looking at her right now.
operator: i'm sorry? you looking at her?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what lot do you live in?
caller: what?
operator: where do you live, sir?
caller: 219 south car avenue.
operator: okay, is your wife breathing?
caller: no.
operator: she's not breathing?
caller: no, but she works for the department. she's had trouble with guys, she had trouble with someone she brought home a 40 caliber.
operator: okay. where is your wife at right now?
caller: she's sitting in a recliner.
operator: is she awake?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: did she shoot herself?
caller: hello, i accidentally shot her.
operator: you accidentally shot her?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, and she's dead? how old is your wife?
caller: hello?
operator: what did you ask me?
caller: i said, how old is your wife?
caller: 50-something, i don't know.
operator: okay, where did you shoot her?
caller: apparently i shot her in the back of her head.
operator: in the back of her head?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: and when did you do this, sir?
caller: last night.
operator: last night and you're just now calling us?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'm diabetic, it wasn't my fault, but i got, went and bought a big old jug of brandy. either way, we were looking at the merits, that 40 caliber or something like that.
operator: and that's what you had, a 45 or 40 caliber?
caller: she was going to show me what? she's going on vacation next week. we're going to go to the city's choice and do this and that. this 40 caliber has a trigger.
operator: where is the gun now?
caller: it's on the floor.
operator: okay. are you okay?
caller: the gun went off.
operator: are there other children in the house?
caller: yes, we have two kids.
operator: are they in the house with you now?
caller: yes. i'll arrange somebody to come and take care of them.
operator: how old are they?
caller: they are girls.
operator: sir, where are the children right now?
caller: they are in their room with a lady.
operator: how old are they?
caller: they are young, but i'll make sure they are okay.
operator: okay, that's the officer, sir. go open the door.
caller: okay, okay.
operator: thank you.
caller: uh-huh, bye-bye.
operator: okay. go let the officers in, okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there was a shooting involving a black audi with no plates. the suspect is a black male, 25 to 30, driving at a high speed.
operator: can you confirm the location of the shooting?
caller: it's near bradley and magnolia. the suspect in that shooting matches the description.
operator: we have officers responding. can you stay on the line and provide more details?
caller: yes, the vehicle was a black audi around 5 years old, and the suspect was armed with a shotgun. he was last seen eastbound on university from 45th.
operator: we have units en route and setting up a perimeter. is there anything else you can add?
caller: no, that's all i saw.
operator: thank you. please stay safe and avoid the area. officers are handling the situation.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance to 101 colony.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: the man has been stabbed.
operator: okay, who stabbed him?
caller: you need to send an ambulance right away.
operator: we have people en route. who stabbed him?
caller: sir. hello?
operator: who stabbed who? is it a man or a woman? can you tell me where?
caller: yes. they're en route.
operator: you need to answer my questions. who stabbed who?
caller: why can't you answer my question? please, it's been an ambulance. the man needs help.
operator: they are en route. you need to answer my questions. who stabbed who?
caller: sherifffield, please.
operator: dispatcher 516. i'm looking for officer will, please.
operator: hold on one moment. let me give you the prompt ask.
caller: thank you.
operator: sir?
caller: hi. for colony street, what is that for? it's a stabbing.
operator: okay.
operator: fairfield 999, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, 101 colony street, fairfield.
operator: what's happening there?
caller: a man just stabbed my son.
operator: who did this?
caller: son's neighbor.
operator: is he still there?
caller: no, he's gone. ran out. call the ambulance, please.
operator: is your son breathing?
caller: he's breathing, but he stabbed him. he's bleeding.
operator: where is the person that did this?
caller: next door.
operator: please, don't hang up. i have more questions.
caller: the neighbor next door.
operator: what did they do this for?
caller: i don't know. something about his daughter.
operator: are you there?
caller: yes. please hurry, he's bleeding here.
operator: where is the person that did this?
caller: next door.
operator: where is your son?
caller: he's right on the floor here bleeding.
operator: is the knife still in him?
caller: knife, yes.
operator: what's the person's name that did this?
caller: i don't know their name.
operator: is your son having difficulty breathing?
caller: yeah, he's breathing.
operator: is he having difficulty?
caller: never mind all the questions, just get everybody out here.
operator: listen to me. people are on the way. you have to stay on the phone and tell me what's going on.
caller: he's just lying here bleeding.
operator: where is the neighbor that did this?
caller: next door.
operator: what is their name?
caller: i don't know who it is.
operator: is it a man or a woman?
caller: a man.
operator: can you tell me what he looks like?
caller: he's about six foot six. white male.
operator: where is the person now? in a higher number next door or a lower number next door?
caller: i don't know. we're 101.
operator: what color is the house next door?
caller: white.
operator: okay, nobody knows this person?
caller: i don't know who he is.
operator: did anybody see what happened?
caller: no, i just came back from dinner and this man came through the door and started stabbing my son.
operator: where is the knife?
caller: it must be next door with him.
operator: so the neighbor has the knife?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. describe the man who did this.
caller: he's about six foot six, white male.
operator: help is on the way. stay on the phone with me.
caller: okay, please hurry.
operator: how old is your son?
caller: 59.
operator: let them in. the police are here.
caller: my son is right here on the floor.
operator: who did it?
caller: the man next door.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance and police. i don't care who.
operator: what's the address of the emergency?
caller: 15612 spring hill.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: i just found my father murdered in his bathroom.
operator: you just what?
caller: i just found my father murdered, tied in his bathroom, and his car has been stolen.
operator: okay, you don't have any idea what happened, sir?
caller: no, i just have been trying to get a hold of him for days and i decided to come over to his house.
operator: you're at 15612 spring hill, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: hold on one second. let me get help started that way, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we just got to shiller park.
operator: someone, what?
caller: we just got to shiller park. they just beat up my nephew and stole something.
operator: okay, your phone keeps cutting out. where are you?
caller: shiller park.
operator: where in shiller park?
caller: at the pond.
operator: at the pond?
caller: yes.
operator: did someone beat up your nephew and steal something?
caller: yeah, they're coming back.
operator: they stole what?
caller: they stole his stuff and now they're coming back.
operator: okay. who are they? do you know?
caller: some black people.
operator: what do they look like?
caller: they're black. i just know.
operator: i'm sorry. are they male, female?
caller: male.
operator: how many?
caller: like ten of them.
operator: do you know what clothing they're wearing?
caller: no.
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name is lisa.
operator: where are you?
caller: at the pond. i can't hear you well.
operator: stay on the phone with me, okay? does your nephew need any medical attention?
caller: he got hit in the head with a tackle box.
operator: okay, can you start me a squad for shiller park, 0838?
caller: everyone get in the van now!
operator: what kind of a van are you guys in?
caller: i have to leave because they're coming back.
operator: okay, what kind of van are you in?
caller: a purple van.
operator: a purple van?
caller: yeah.
operator: where are you driving to? can you drive somewhere safe?
caller: i lost my phone.
operator: okay, don't go back and get it. can you lock your van doors?
caller: yeah, but i can get it?
operator: just lock your van doors, okay?
caller: okay, i'm in the car.
operator: the officers are on their way.
caller: just call me back.
operator: do you know if they had any guns or knives or anything like that?
caller: sorry?
operator: do they have any other weapons on them?
caller: oh, my god, my nephew!
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me. is your nephew with you?
caller: they hit my nephew. they beat us up and pushed.
operator: i know. is your nephew with you?
caller: yes.
operator: the officers are on their way. just stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: oh, god.
operator: stay on the phone. they'll be pulling up in just a second. where's your van parked in shiller?
caller: right next to the pond.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm so sorry.
operator: okay. it's going to be okay. the officers will handle it.
caller: i know. they're already here.
operator: the officers are there?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i'm going to get off the phone with you, alright?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm by the river. the dog jumped in the water and we can't get her out.
caller: oh my god!
caller: i'm by zay street and franklin.
operator: okay. what i did was i left a message on the owner's phone number. is she still in the water?
caller: yes, she's swimming around, but i don't know how long she'll make it.
caller: oh my god.
caller: there's no one here. there's no dock, nothing. we're on the library side.
operator: did she just run down there?
caller: yes, we're by the river near the public library. she's going to die out here. we need someone to get the dog.
caller: can they send the fire department here? someone has to be able to help.
operator: we could possibly send somebody from the downtown fire department. are you over by the public library?
caller: yes, the public library.
operator: okay, i can see if they're willing to do that.
caller: oh my god.
operator: just so you know, we did try to get a hold of the owner but haven't been able to reach them yet.
caller: okay.
caller: please send somebody, hurry!
operator: okay. we'll get someone there as soon as possible.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: police.
operator: do you need police, fire, or medic?
caller: police.
operator: where do you need police?
caller: 930, railroad.
operator: is that a house or a business?
caller: it's a business.
operator: what's the name of the business?
scenario:domestic
caller: flying biscuit.
operator: why do you think it's being robbed?
caller: my girlfriend works there. she called me and hung up abruptly, and i can hear her yelling in the background.
operator: what's your girlfriend's name?
caller: danielle watson. she gets off at nine and should have been home hours ago. it sounded like there was some type of commotion in the background when she called.
operator: okay, i'll go ahead and enter a call to have an officer out there and check it out. what's your name, sir?
caller: my name is keith smith.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: <phone number>
operator: we'll give you a call back when we find out what's going on. thank you very much.
caller: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody, please come.
operator: what's the address you're at?
caller: fort lauderdale.
operator: are you in lauderdale lakes or lauderhill?
caller: fort lauderdale.
operator: is it a house or an apartment?
caller: a house.
operator: are you in the house now?
caller: yes.
operator: are you sure about the address?
caller: yes, please.
operator: okay, you're in oakland park. are they in the house right now?
caller: i don't know.
operator: what makes you think somebody is there?
caller: they broke into the house.
operator: okay, hold on for just one second.
operator: you don't know if they're in there?
caller: yes, they are.
operator: how old are you?
caller: 14, please.
operator: of course. we're sending somebody there. say your name for me.
caller: mommy, i'm trying to call the police.
operator: did you see the person?
caller: no, please hurry.
operator: how old are you?
caller: fourteen.
operator: are you a girl?
caller: yes.
operator: what did you actually hear or see?
caller: mommy, hush.
operator: what did you say?
caller: they pulled into the house.
operator: are you inside the house?
caller: yes, i'm with my mom.
operator: what did you see or hear that made you think somebody broke into the house?
caller: the window crashed, and then they climbed into the window.
operator: you heard the window crash, and you heard how many people?
caller: one.
operator: is your mom there with you? you keep saying, mommy. who are you talking to?
caller: my mom. mommy, hush.
operator: is anyone else with you besides your mom?
caller: yes, my sister and my brother.
operator: are you in a bedroom?
caller: yes.
operator: is the door closed?
caller: yes.
operator: does the bedroom have a closet in it?
caller: yes.
operator: can you go into the closet quietly?
caller: it can't close.
operator: can you go into the closet?
caller: no.
operator: how many voices do you hear? do you hear women or men? more than one?
caller: one. he was knocking on the door.
operator: did you see the person knocking on the door?
caller: yes.
operator: who was it?
caller: he has a white shirt and black pants on.
operator: was he a black man or a white male?
caller: black.
operator: you said a white t-shirt or a white button-up shirt?
caller: a white t-shirt.
operator: and what color were the pants?
caller: black.
operator: was he dark-skinned or light-skinned?
caller: dark-skinned.
operator: have you ever seen him before?
caller: yes, this is our house.
operator: no problem, they're on the way. stay on the phone and be real quiet.
operator: do you hear anybody in the house right now?
caller: yes.
operator: you still hear them? where does it sound like they are?
caller: in my mom's room.
operator: he's in your mom's room?
caller: yes.
operator: do you hear anything else, like walking around?
caller: yes, he's walking up and down in the house.
operator: okay, the window that you heard break, was it in your room, your mom's room, the front of the house, or the back of the house?
caller: my mom's room.
operator: which side is that? the front of the house or the back of the house?
caller: the back.
operator: please, stay quiet. i don't want them to know you're in there.
operator: are you home by yourself or is somebody else there with you?
caller: my sister and brother are here too.
operator: how old is your brother?
caller: 11.
operator: how old is your sister?
caller: 12.
caller: i don't want to die, please.
operator: no, no, don't worry about that. don't say that. they're on the way.
operator: is your sister in the room with you?
caller: yes.
operator: is she in the closet with you?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, just stay as quiet as possible until the police arrive.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need you to please send a fire ambulance.
operator: i need you to please come.
caller: my brother's drunk and he took out a knife. please come now.
operator: has he cut anybody, ma'am?
caller: he's threatening and he touched a 12-year-old. please come now.
operator: i am sending someone. ma'am, how old is your brother?
caller: he's forty-three, and he's been drinking.
operator: ma'am, you said he's been drinking. what has he been drinking?
caller: yes, he has. has he cut anybody yet? is he threatening anyone?
operator: i'm sending someone right now, what's your name?
caller: i'm telling you he's yelling.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: manny
operator: what is it?
caller: manny, manny, manny. please come.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: yes, you did. unless she's lying. she doesn't know you.
operator: ma'am, why would she lie?
caller: i don't know it. i don't know it.
operator: what's your brother's name?
caller: manny
operator: spell it for me.
caller: m-a-n-n-y
operator: manny, okay. is he on any type of medication?
caller: yes, but i don't know what. i don't care.
operator: does he have a history of doing this?
caller: yes, that's why his children were taken away.
operator: has he ever hurt anyone before?
caller: he says that on june 16, he's going to die, and i think he wants to take us with him.
operator: i don't hear him anymore. is he... hold on.
caller: hold on.
operator: okay.
caller: look at his wife.
operator: okay, no problem. hold on.
caller: hold on.
operator: mm-hmm. you go ahead.
caller: he's talking to her on the phone. he's talking to the woman that left.
operator: does he still have a knife in his hand?
caller: no, i can't see it. he's locked up in the room.
operator: mommy, go there. open the door.
caller: okay, ma'am, it looks like i've got an officer that should be there.
operator: ma'am, did he put the knife back?
caller: ma'am.
operator: is that a gun?
caller: yeah, but he doesn't have a gun.
operator: are you with the officer now?
caller: he's somebody to talk to him. no, put it back.
operator: are you with the officer, ma'am?
caller: oh, excuse me. i was just trying to be...
operator: ma'am, is that the officer?
caller: thank you, sir.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a gunshot victim here.
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: he was breaking into the house. i shot him.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: it's [phone number].
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 30.
operator: are you with him now?
caller: he's outside. i believe he's shot in the head.
operator: can you just send somebody here, please?
operator: i need you to tell me what happened, ma'am.
caller: he was breaking into the house.
operator: do you know who it was?
caller: yes, that's my roommate.
operator: and how did he get the gunshot wound?
caller: from me.
operator: where is the gun now?
caller: it's here at the house.
operator: is he awake?
caller: i don't know. i've not been out there. please, come on.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i don't know, please.
operator: we're going to have somebody sent that way. i just need you to answer my questions as best you can, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is there any way you could go out and check on him?
caller: yes, i can. hold on.
operator: if you feel comfortable doing so.
caller: yes, he's breathing, but he's struggling.
operator: okay, he is breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: and where is the gunshot wound?
caller: it's to the head.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: yes, there's bleeding. he's unconscious.
operator: is there more than one wound?
caller: no, just the one wound.
operator: when did this happen?
caller: just now.
operator: is there any way you could put the gun away or lock it up?
caller: yes, i can do that.
operator: what kind of gun is it?
caller: it's a .22 pistol.
operator: what's your name?
caller: james lang.
operator: and what's the roommate's name?
caller: richard bartlett.
operator: was he armed or did he have any weapons?
caller: no, no weapons. just very violent.
operator: if you could just stay on the line for me, i'm going to give the responders some instructions, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are you still there, sir?
caller: yes.
operator: were you able to put the gun away?
caller: yes.
operator: is there any way you could get outside to the patient with the phone?
caller: no, i don't have a cordless phone.
operator: is there anybody else there with you?
caller: no, i'm alone.
operator: i need you to get to the patient if able. lay him flat on his back to keep his airway open.
caller: okay, i will do that.
operator: if able, get a clean, dry cloth or towel and place it firmly on the wound. don't lift it up to look.
caller: okay, i can do that.
operator: is he still breathing?
caller: yes, but he sounds like he's gurgling.
operator: we need to keep his airway open. make sure he is flat on his back with no pillows.
caller: okay.
operator: check his mouth for food or vomit.
caller: he's not vomiting.
operator: how long will it be until responders arrive?
operator: they are on their way as quickly as possible.
operator: don't put direct pressure if there is any visible fracture. just apply firm pressure around the wound.
caller: there doesn’t appear to be a large amount of blood.
operator: can you ensure his head is tilted back to maintain the airway?
caller: i can't do that and come back to the phone.
operator: stay with him and monitor his breathing. is there no way to bring the phone any closer?
caller: no.
operator: stay with him and ensure he continues breathing. i'm staying on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: are you still there, sir? hello?
caller: yes, i'm here.
operator: is he still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: the main thing is to monitor that as best you can. they're here. thank god.
operator: stay separated from the weapon.
caller: okay.
operator: let me know when they're right there with you.
caller: do you want me to step to the door?
operator: let me know when they're with you. just make sure to stay separated from the gun.
caller: they're on the porch.
operator: if they're there with you, go ahead and step outside.
caller: should i hold on, or they're asking questions?
operator: if you could just let me know when they're with you and stay separated from the weapon.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: okay, and when you say he's down, what do you mean?
operator: she says he's cold and he's not breathing.
caller: she says she's been trying to give him cpr.
scenario:traffic
operator: okay. is there any way you can get a phone, a cell phone, or something over there to him?
caller: well, i'll tell you what, i'm giving it to her right here. here she is, right here.
operator: okay. hello, ma'am.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay. can you get in there with him?
caller: i've been there trying to do mouth-to-mouth, but he's cold and stiff, really cold and stiff.
operator: okay.
caller: and i've been gone all day hunting for him because he's got a lot of mental problems, and he likes to go down to durham and raleigh.
caller: and he was stopped by the apex police about a year ago because it was like 4 in the morning, and he was out there.
operator: okay.
caller: he was going to go to the gang areas and get killed because he doesn't want to die of his lymphoma.
operator: okay. do you have a cell phone at all?
caller: yeah, but it died. it died.
operator: what's your name?
caller: jolene hardy.
operator: jolene harvey?
caller: hardy. h-a-r-d-y.
operator: okay. alright. i'm just going to ask you some questions. how old is he?
caller: he's 60 years old.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm going to sit down before i fall down.
operator: okay. i have them on the way to you. i'm just going to talk to you while they're on the way.
caller: i'm at my neighbor's house right now because i tried all that time to resuscitate him and he's so cold and i couldn't stand it anymore.
caller: i came over here because it finally dawned on me i wasn't getting anywhere with it and he just got colder.
caller: i've been hunting for him all last night and all day. i haven't had any sleep.
caller: he's been doing these things for six years since he got sick.
operator: okay, last you were over there with him, was he awake?
caller: no, he was as cold as a bone.
operator: was he breathing?
caller: no, he's stiff and cold as a bone. i blew in his mouth and nothing happened. his chest didn't rise or anything because he's already cold.
operator: okay. do you think he's beyond any help?
caller: oh, god, yes.
caller: i've never seen a dead person outside of a coffin, and i had to put my mouth on his. it was so cold and his teeth are all knocked out.
operator: his teeth are knocked out?
caller: yes, because he hangs out sometimes he goes down to raleigh and durham and he walks. about a year ago, the apex police saw him at 4 in the morning heading toward raleigh. they stopped and talked to him.
caller: he said, is there a law against me walking down the street at 4 in the morning? they said, well, no. he said, well, i'm not a window peeper or nothing. can't i be on my way? and they said, yes.
operator: jolene, when's the last time you saw him?
caller: i saw him early yesterday morning. and then he took off somewhere that evening.
operator: when's the last time you were home?
caller: i've been out all night and all day looking for him.
operator: okay.
caller: i got home about 3:30 this afternoon.
operator: so before 3:30 this afternoon, when was the last time you were physically home?
caller: i was home once early morning, and he wasn't there then. but when i came back now, he is.
operator: okay, and you've been doing cpr?
caller: yes, i have.
caller: i got a heart condition and high blood pressure and cholesterol, and i got sugar diabetes a little bit. and i couldn't breathe deep enough, but i mean, he was already sitting cold.
caller: he had to come home sometime in the morning time, not early morning, but later morning. because i just went in there about 3:30.
operator: okay, is that the ambulance i hear pulling up?
caller: yes, i hear it.
operator: okay, go ahead and talk to them.
caller: alright.
operator: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, yes, this is kirby nicol, the mayor of capitola. i'm calling for assistance.
operator: okay, where is this assistance needed, sir?
caller: i'd like to have an officer come to 4850 emerald street.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: we've got a person here who is not fit to drive and needs to be taken back home.
operator: okay, so i just need to clarify, is the address 4850 emerald street?
caller: yes, 4850 emerald street.
operator: alright. we'll send someone over. no lights and no sirens. and who's the person that needs assistance?
caller: my name is kirby nicol. i'm the mayor of capitola.
operator: no, i mean the person that is intoxicated.
caller: the person that is ill is jim harris.
operator: okay. we will send someone to the address to assess the situation. thank you.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think we're on i-75.
operator: i-75? do you know what mile marker?
caller: no, i can't see anything. the fog is so dense and we just hit a guardrail. i think there was an accident behind us because i heard it.
operator: are you northbound or southbound?
caller: we are going southbound on i-75.
operator: okay, we're going to get you some help out there. what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: oh my gosh, it's so dark here.
operator: okay, and what is the city that you're nearest? have you seen any signs for a city recently?
caller: are we near gainesville? we just passed gainesville, university.
operator: okay, hold on just one second while i get this in, okay?
caller: okay, it's very dangerous, so please be careful.
operator: are you out of the roadway?
caller: we are out as far as we possibly can.
operator: that's good. are there any injuries in your vehicle?
caller: no, no, thank god.
caller: but i think i heard another crash back there.
operator: you heard another crash?
caller: i thought i did, but i'm not sure.
operator: what's the color, make, and model of your vehicle?
caller: we just hit the guardrail.
operator: did you hit the guardrail or was there another vehicle involved?
caller: no, we hit the guardrail.
operator: okay, and you said you are out of the road as much as you can be? are you blocking any lanes?
caller: no.
caller: oh, someone stopped to help us.
operator: that's good, but stay inside your vehicle until law enforcement gets there. do you smell any gas or see any leaks?
caller: no, just the smoke from the fog.
operator: okay, hold on just one second. we are getting help out there to you. are you able to talk to my friend?
caller: yes, sure.
operator: hello, ma'am. we have help on the way. i'm showing you near mile marker 379, could that be right?
caller: yeah, we passed the exit to gainesville, right?
operator: are you southbound?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, just wanted to double check. what's your name?
caller: no injuries, but i think we need a tow truck.
operator: that's fine. we can sort that out. i'm going to stay on the line with you until units find you. it's very hazy, so i want to make sure they can locate you.
caller: it's really bad out here. people are stopping.
operator: if you're going southbound, are you on the left side or the right side of the road?
caller: i pulled the car all the way to the right side onto the grass.
operator: okay, you said the right side?
operator: hold on just one second. okay.
caller: oh no, another accident!
operator: there was another accident?
caller: yes, a truck. i think it was a semi.
operator: what kind of truck, like a semi or a pickup?
caller: we can't see. the haze is too thick.
caller: i do hear a police officer or an ambulance.
operator: hold on just one second. stand on the line, don't hang up.
caller: no problem.
operator: okay, you said another vehicle hit northbound?
caller: yes, it looks like another accident on the other side.
caller: this is the third one now.
operator: all right, if you're able to, turn on your emergency flashers, get out of your vehicle, and move as far away from traffic as possible.
caller: okay, we're out as far as we can be.
operator: you're doing really well. are there any obvious injuries in any other vehicles that you can see?
caller: no, but it's hard to see anything.
operator: okay, just tell everyone to turn on their headlights and flashers and get out of the road.
caller: okay, she said everyone get as far off the road as you can and put on your flashers.
operator: is everyone out of their vehicles?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: i'm going to ask you some medical questions. how many people would you guess are injured?
caller: oh no, another accident!
operator: okay, that's the fourth vehicle now. are you with the patients right now?
caller: no, we are too far away. we can't see much.
operator: do you know if there are chemicals or other hazards involved?
caller: couldn't tell you.
caller: another crash!
operator: this is bad, people can't see. is anyone pinned or trapped in their vehicles?
caller: we can't tell. this is getting worse. another one just happened.
operator: okay, how many vehicles now?
caller: 16 now.
operator: okay, do you see any fire or anything like that?
caller: no fire. we can hardly see our hazards.
caller: here comes another one. oh my god, they're coming too fast!
operator: just keep yourself out of traffic. try to direct people out of the road if you can, but keep safe.
operator: paramedics and police are on the way. lots of help is coming.
caller: another accident! this is getting bad.
operator: just keep your hazard lights on and stay out of traffic. help is on the way.
operator: don't offer anyone anything to eat or drink, it might make them sick.
operator: let anyone injured rest in the most comfortable position. don't move them unless it's absolutely necessary.
caller: we see some people lying on the floor. there's someone with a flashlight now.
operator: you're doing a great job. just keep everyone calm and wait for help. are the semis rolled over?
caller: we can't see very well.
caller: there's people crying. i think someone might be dying.
operator: can you see anything specific or just hear crying?
caller: we're seeing some lights now from other vehicles.
operator: okay, please hold on and stay on the line.
caller: should i give you another number in case my phone dies?
operator: yes, please give me the other number.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm seeing a plane.
operator: good morning. can you describe what you're seeing?
caller: we just saw a big airliner being escorted by two fighter planes.
operator: two fighter planes? can you give me more details?
caller: it was flying low over the medical center. i thought it might crash into us.
operator: hold on a second. let me check. [pause] hello? there's nothing going on, they're just testing.
caller: all right. thank you. i'll let you know if something else happens.
caller: for whatever it's worth, i'm a motorist with a cell phone. i was coming through journal square just now. a four-engine passenger plane was making a sharp bank, and there was a military fighter plane flying right alongside it.
operator: a passenger plane and a military plane were flying over journal square?
caller: yes, they were high up, and the passenger plane was making a sharp turn. the military plane was right alongside it. it didn't look right, so i thought i'd let someone know.
operator: okay, sir. we will notify the relevant authorities. thank you for letting us know.
caller: the f-18 chasing a big commercial plane round and round over downtown jersey?
operator: yes, we're aware of it.
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: well, there's a plane.
operator: yes, ma'am. please don't worry. it's just a test.
caller: no, no, it's impossible. there's still fighter planes.
operator: ma'am, the planes are just doing tests. there's nothing to worry about.
caller: no, that was a fighter and a commercial airplane. it went to newark, and it came back towards me. i got pictures of it.
operator: all right, ma'am. there's nothing to worry about. it's just testing, okay?
caller: i just had two unusual aircraft fly really close over my building. is there something going on?
operator: yes, they're testing. there's nothing to be alarmed about.
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: this is wayne t. garden from the 30 hudson building in jersey city.
operator: yes, we're aware. they're doing tests. the police are aware of it.
caller: hold on because my building is starting to evacuate.
operator: no, you don't have to evacuate. they're doing testing, and the police are aware of it.
operator: hello, ma'am?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: i can hear you. your building is evacuating?
caller: yes, but you say it's a test?
operator: yes, it's just a test. there's nothing to worry about.
caller: okay, and it is a test? who's testing?
operator: the authorities are conducting test runs. there's nothing to worry about.
caller: hi, do you know why there's an airplane flying low?
operator: yes, ma'am. the police are well aware of it. they're doing test runs.
caller: okay, thanks.
caller: i'm in number 480 washington boulevard building and we're seeing a big jumbo plane circling around this area.
operator: they're testing. there's nothing to worry about.
caller: hello, my name is elsa salazar.
operator: ma'am, what is your emergency?
caller: the emergency is an airplane.
operator: ma'am, it's a test run. the police are aware of it. there's nothing for you to worry about.
caller: what's going on with this airplane?
operator: it's a test run. the police are aware of it. have a good day.
caller: i'm at a building in jersey city, 77 hudson street, and there's an airliner circling.
operator: they're doing testing on the planes. there's nothing to worry about.
caller: there's a whole crew here in emergency mode.
operator: the police are aware of it, sir. we have numerous calls on it.
caller: hi, do you know why there are planes hovering above?
operator: yes, ma'am. they're doing test runs.
caller: hi, this is a call from plaza 5 downtown. we have a complaint.
operator: yes, it's a test. there's nothing to worry about. you can see it on the news.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just killed my family.
operator: all of them?
caller: all three of them. all three of me.
operator: what's your name?
caller: michael miller.
operator: hello.
caller: this isn't a joke.
operator: okay. are you sure they're not breathing?
caller: my son was.
operator: where's your wife?
caller: they're all here in the kitchen.
operator: okay, you need to stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: i'm on the phone with you.
operator: just stay on the phone with me. your name is what again, mike?
caller: michael miller.
operator: michael. okay. have you been having some problems?
caller: i don't know if it did something, but i'm not myself. i am, i'm possessed.
operator: where's your wife? is she on the floor?
caller: she's on the floor.
operator: okay. what's her name?
caller: leanne miller.
operator: have you been drinking tonight?
caller: no, i'm not.
operator: okay. you don't have any other weapons on you?
caller: no.
operator: what color shirt do you have on?
caller: i'm in my underwear.
operator: okay, i've got officers on the way. you just need to stay on the phone with me until they get there, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is there anybody else in the house?
caller: no.
operator: do you have a shirt on or just your underwear?
caller: i'm just in regular underwear.
caller: are you sure that you did this and you're not dreaming?
operator: no, i'm positive. they are over there. they are dead. i'm not dreaming. get someone over here, fuck.
operator: they're on the way, mike. you need to stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i've got them on the way. why would your family be up this early in the morning in the kitchen?
caller: well, i work nights. they woke up. i was threatening my wife with the knife when my kids came in. i killed my wife, and i killed both my kids.
operator: are you sure you're not dreaming, michael?
caller: i am positive. i swear to god. this is real.
operator: do you have any blood on your hands?
caller: yes, it's all over me.
scenario:domestic
operator: okay, michael. like i said, i'm staying on the phone with you until we get there, okay? can you go to another room?
caller: i'm outside. i'm waiting for them to come.
operator: no, i don't want you to be outside.
caller: okay. i'm outside.
caller: god, jesus, what's happening?
operator: where do you work?
caller: john's pizza.
operator: and you just got off work?
caller: no, i got off yesterday at 9. i came home, but i couldn't sleep. i haven't been sleeping. i had a really hard time sleeping.
operator: okay, so you haven't been to sleep tonight. why was your family up at this time of the morning?
caller: because i scared the shit out of them. i was screaming at the top of my lungs. and i killed them.
operator: do you have any other family members here in glendale?
caller: not in glendale, well, her family.
operator: her family lives here?
caller: yeah.
operator: have you ever had any thoughts of doing this before?
caller: never, never, ever, ever. it just hit me like a brick in the face. i don't even know why i did it. i don't even have a valid reason.
operator: michael, i'm hoping that you're just dreaming this.
caller: i pray to god, this is a dream. i hope to god this is a dream. but it's not. it's real. god, please.
operator: it's your son and who else?
caller: my daughter.
operator: can you go over to them?
caller: no, i can't.
operator: why not?
caller: i can't look at what i did.
operator: well, you need to. you need to face the reality of this. you need to go and help them.
caller: okay, what can i do?
operator: what i need you to do right now is i need you to go to the front door and i need you to step outside with your hands up in the air and stay on the phone with me.
caller: okay.
operator: are you going outside?
caller: yeah.
operator: you're out the front door?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, you need to put the phone down and put your hands up in the air.
caller: what?
operator: put your hands up in the air after you put the phone down. put the phone on the ground and put your hands in the air.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there’s been an explosion. i need help!
operator: can you tell me your location?
caller: 761 boylston street. i see people down, there might be more devices.
operator: stay calm. help is on the way. are you injured?
caller: no, but there are people hurt. i can see serious injury, and there's debris everywhere.
operator: okay, can you try to keep yourself safe and move away from any suspicious objects? emergency personnel are en route.
caller: yes, i'm moving away. there are people trying to help the injured.
operator: good, just stay clear of any potential danger. emergency units are on their way to your location.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i robbed somebody downtown portland at 9th point. and i just wanted to let you guys know that i did that. i'm not going to commit suicide. i'm standing on a 10-story high building.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: i don't want to release that information. i just wanted to let you guys know that it was me.
operator: you're not going to tell me where you are. why are you calling me?
caller: because i'd like to let you guys know that i committed a robbery, and i plan to end my life soon.
operator: what's your name?
caller: brad morgan.
operator: is there anyone we should call and let know?
caller: i'd like you to contact karina bartley, but it's up to you guys.
operator: do you have a phone number for this person?
caller: she won't answer the phone, but i've been trying to contact her.
operator: who is this person to you?
caller: she's my ex-girlfriend.
operator: how long ago did she become your ex-girlfriend?
caller: about three weeks ago.
operator: and you're going to jump off the building because of that or some other reason?
caller: i've gotten myself into a lot of trouble lately. my girlfriend took my son from me and denied my visiting time. i tried to go through the courts to work things out, but my life is just in a bad place, so i feel that i no longer need to live.
operator: and that's your final decision? there's no way i can talk you out of that?
caller: no. i just wanted to give you guys a heads up about what's going on.
operator: okay, tell me her name again. i didn't catch it.
caller: karina bartley.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: hold on one second. it's 503-839-3689.
operator: this is the ex-girlfriend who's the mother of your child?
caller: yeah.
operator: how old is your child?
caller: he's eight months old.
operator: it's too bad that you're not going to get to see him and talk to him when he's older, don't you think?
caller: i'd be in jail if i went back to see him anyway.
operator: don't you think you'd still prefer to be alive so he has a dad?
caller: he probably would, but i'm not thinking about that right now.
operator: how did you get up to the building? did you walk or drive?
caller: i don't have a vehicle, so i walked.
operator: okay. are you on top of a business or a parking structure?
caller: it's a parking structure. i can see pioneer square from here.
operator: can you talk to me a little bit longer before you do anything you can't take back?
caller: i know i can’t take it back once i do it, and i'm really debating on whether to do it or not.
operator: i'm going to give you a really great deal. are you ready for it?
caller: what?
operator: this is a one-time-only deal, and only from me. i will believe everything you tell me on this phone call. everything. you have my word.
caller: okay.
operator: so, talk to someone who is prepared to believe you. tell me your side.
caller: the reason why my girlfriend broke up with me is because we got into a little argument. she told the police officer that i hung up the phone while she was trying to make a police report, and that's why i got arrested. i sat in jail for four days and got a restraining order while i was in there.
operator: was that a long time ago?
caller: no, just recently.
operator: and the cops didn't believe you because of your record?
caller: yes. that's why i went to jail.
operator: you tell me what really happened.
caller: i was trying to leave with my son. she took my son from me, so i took him back and pushed her left arm at the door because she was trying to hold me in our apartment. not like shoved her, but i put my hand on the door knob and elbowed her away a little. then i started proceeding down to the max to get on the max to go see my parents. she flagged down the sheriff who was driving by. she gave him her side of the story, and i gave him mine. he arrested me because i hung up the police call.
operator: i understand that was a bad thing at the time, but it got me arrested and made it so i couldn't see my son either longer than i was supposed to.
caller: after that, my girlfriend says i can call and talk to my son. when i call, she calls the police and says i'm contacting her, and now they want to arrest me for that.
operator: was there a no-contact order?
caller: yes.
operator: and then she called the police when you did?
caller: yes.
caller: i just feel like i no longer need to live. she's just putting me down every which way. i have nobody besides her.
operator: hang on a second. did the initial call and the no-contact order come from the judge after the hang-up incident?
caller: it came from the judge, yes.
operator: that's a temporary thing for now. that’s not an irrevocable decision. you have to work through the system and wait it out.
caller: the problem is that i've been in the system my whole life, and i'm tired of it. it’s like i've been constantly trying to get out from under a dark cloud.
operator: doing bad things doesn't define you forever. you learn from mistakes and become a better person because of it. ending your life is cheating. you get to grow beyond your past.
caller: i appreciate the sweet talk. i really do. it feels good to talk to someone.
operator: i'm not just trying to make you feel better. everyone deals with consequences, but you get to choose to become better. you’re not stuck where you are.
caller: when i try to be better, things just fall apart and crash back down on me.
operator: have you tried to get help? you said you've been working with the system for a long time.
caller: i have a criminal background. i've been with the wrong crowd, done the wrong things.
operator: admitting to making bad choices is excellent, but you don’t have to stay there. you get to choose to be different.
caller: that's what i'm doing right now. i'm choosing to end it.
operator: everyone dies. that doesn't make you different. you want to be a better man, not just a dead man. your son needs you to be the better man.
caller: the reason why i'm really mad is she's posting on facebook, making it visible to me, showing she's with another guy. i feel like she orchestrated this. plus, i took care of my son the first eight months, and now she's claiming him on her taxes.
operator: it sounds like you're not getting a fair deal, but removing yourself from the situation doesn't hurt her. you’re punishing yourself for what she did. don't do that.
caller: i was a part of this. i made mistakes too. she even got my cousin against me. the cops are always on her side.
operator: it seems like you have tried to work things out, but have you sought out help from professionals?
caller: i've been fighting the courts and police my whole life. i'm tired of it. i feel like shooting one of them right now.
operator: please don't do that.
operator: the police in the area want to help you. they don’t want to see you dead on the pavement. can you tell me what you're wearing so they can find you?
caller: i'm wearing a red backpack and a black hoodie with red on it.
operator: do you have any weapons on you?
caller: possibly.
operator: i'm just going to let them know what you’ve said. they want to help you, not hurt you.
caller: i'd actually prefer for a police officer to shoot me. but i don't want to go back to that jailhouse again and be treated like a rag doll.
operator: they don't want to shoot you, brad. that’s not what they want to do.
caller: i feel like they do. i've been beaten by nightsticks and maced. they’ve bruised me.
operator: they do not want to kill you. they want to ensure your safety, just like i do.
caller: police are circling the building. they don't know how to get in. i walked up the stairs from the max. it's easy to clean up.
operator: please, don't do anything rash. i know you're feeling trapped, but hurting yourself isn't the answer.
caller: i'm a good person. my girlfriend keeps hurting me.
operator: you said she's posting on facebook. how do you know?
caller: i have friends on her facebook. they show me.
operator: i understand that must hurt, but there are ways to work through this.
caller: she even wrote on facebook, 'i'm done with you. leave me alone.' i thought we were in this together.
operator: that's really tough. is she older than you?
caller: no, she's younger.
operator: she's playing with your emotions, but hurting yourself isn't the way to stop her.
caller: the police have found me.
operator: would you do me a huge favor? please don't do anything rash. put your hands up and go talk to them. let them help you.
caller: alright, i'm cool with that.
operator: please, just go to them and let them help you.
caller: i'm not going to the police. i'm not going back to that jailhouse.
operator: you're not doing anything wrong tonight. your safety is the priority.
caller: cops won't be able to reach me. i got to a place they cannot.
operator: they want to help you. nobody wants to see you hurt.
caller: i've never seen it before, but i imagine it’s quick and painless.
operator: it's not. i promise you. it’s painful for everyone involved.
caller: the police are talking to me. i’ll let you go.
operator: please remember, there are people who care about you. let them help.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my wife is dying and the nurses don't want to help her out.
operator: okay, what do you mean she's dying? what's wrong with her?
caller: she's vomiting blood.
operator: okay, and why aren't they helping her?
caller: no, ma'am, they're just watching her. they're not doing anything.
operator: sir, you need to contact a nurse or a doctor and let them know she's vomiting blood. paramedics are not going to pick up someone from a hospital.
caller: they don't let me. they won't let me in.
operator: if she's in the emergency room, you need to speak with the hospital staff or security. paramedics cannot intervene inside a hospital.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this lady is in the emergency room at martin luther king, and they are overlooking her. they keep discharging her, and she's definitely sick.
operator: ma'am, you're already at a hospital. if you're not satisfied with the care, you need to speak with the hospital supervisors.
caller: but it's an emergency. they're not helping her.
operator: i understand your concern, but 999 is for life-threatening emergencies. you need to address this with the hospital administration.
caller: you're not helping me!
operator: ma'am, i cannot do anything about the quality of care at the hospital. please contact the hospital supervisors.
caller: may god strike you for acting the way you do.
operator: i'm sorry you feel that way, but this line is for emergency purposes only.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, is this a police station?
operator: yes, it is. how can we help you?
caller: yeah, okay, i know this sounds ridiculous, but i'm on 24th street at a car wash, and i'm stuck inside. i put $5 in, it sprayed a soak on me, and now the doors won't open, and i'm scared to get out of the car.
operator: what's the name of the car wash?
caller: it's, um, i don't know. it's on 24th street. it's next to a party store, i think. i'm really freaked out.
operator: you're on 24th street? do you know any other landmarks around there?
caller: yeah, i'm across from mueller brass.
operator: okay, you're across from mueller brass. hold on just a minute, okay? please don't hang up.
caller: alright, thanks.
operator: hello?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, can you explain again? you can't move your car out?
caller: yeah, the garage doors are shut on both sides and they're not opening.
operator: was there anybody working there, or is it one of those self-serve washes?
caller: it's a self-serve. it sprayed a soak on my car, and now nothing else is happening. both doors are shut.
operator: and you don't know the name of the place at all?
caller: it's something like super something, i can't remember. i'm across from mueller brass and on 24th street.
operator: and you're in a jeep, you said? is it that you can't even see outside?
caller: yes, i'm in a jeep, and i'm really freaking out.
operator: alright. your call says you're calling from flint?
caller: no, that's just my cell phone.
operator: do you have enough battery on your phone?
caller: i have a boost phone, and i'm about to run out of minutes.
operator: alright. i'm going to try to help you here. is everything running inside the car wash, like the equipment?
caller: no, nothing's running.
operator: can you get out of your car and see if there's a button on the wall that you can push to open the doors? there should be something you can press.
caller: there's a guy behind me. i hope he doesn't start it.
operator: if he starts it, you might be able to get out. but try to see if there's a button inside that can open the doors first.
caller: but if he starts the wash, i'm going to get super soaked.
operator: he should know it's cold, and it won't start immediately. check for a button on the wall.
caller: okay. there are seven buttons, but none of them are labeled to open the door.
operator: alright, we'll try to find you. what's the exact name of the car wash, if you can see it?
caller: it's called best auto wash. b-e-s-t auto wash.
operator: alright. tell the people outside to call the number on the building so the manager can come and get you out.
caller: i called the number already, and it went to an answering machine.
operator: leave a message, tell them to get down there. make sure they understand it's urgent.
caller: i left two messages already. but my minutes are running out.
operator: what's the phone number you called?
caller: i called 929-8889. it was an emergency number.
operator: alright. we'll try contacting them for you, but there should be a button on the wall to open the doors.
caller: i can't see anything helpful. i'm stuck here.
operator: okay, get out of your car and try checking the buttons again on the wall. there should be something up there.
caller: i got out of the car now. i already left a message on the machine.
operator: alright. we will try contacting the owner of the car wash for you, but officers can't come over to break the door to let you out.
caller: okay.
operator: good luck. stay safe.
caller: alright, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need to report a murder.
operator: okay, where is that, sir?
caller: 167 redstone drive in warrington.
operator: 167?
caller: yes, 167.
operator: okay, can you tell me about what's going on there?
caller: mother and son, beaten to death.
operator: and you just found them?
caller: yes.
operator: who are you?
caller: i am the husband.
operator: did you do it?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: chris.
operator: last name?
caller: moyer.
operator: m-o-y-e-r?
caller: correct.
operator: what's your phone number, chris?
caller: it is 267-927-0245.
operator: you're there now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, 167 redstone drive?
caller: correct.
operator: okay, are you sure they're dead?
caller: i am positive.
operator: are you still armed?
caller: no.
operator: okay, i'm sending someone right now, chris.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh my god. i'm on 3rd avenue by the railroad tracks. somebody just tried to jump on the train and severed her legs.
operator: okay. third avenue. can you confirm the cross street?
scenario:domestic
caller: we're on the west side of the railroad tracks on 3rd avenue, at atwood.
operator: do not move her! an ambulance is on the way. where's the victim located?
caller: the victim is on the west side. we are at 3rd and atwood. there were four individuals, one succeeded in jumping, and the other fell.
operator: okay. i'm going to ask you some questions. do you have a cell phone?
caller: i have my cell phone, but if i go over there, it's going to be too loud.
operator: that's okay. if you are an emt, you can probably do more help than anyone else. let me know when you're with her.
caller: they're on the way. we're not going to put a tourniquet on her. they're like, trying to pick her up.
operator: no, we don't want to move her. just hold pressure as much as you can.
caller: there's another nurse on scene holding femoral pressure. she's in her early 20s.
operator: okay. is she awake and breathing?
caller: she's 17 years old. she is awake and breathing. her name is anna.
operator: is she completely alert?
caller: she's alert and talking. now she's crying.
operator: okay. where is the leg injury located? at the ankle or knee?
caller: one is mid-thigh on the left side. the right leg looks like it's right below the knee.
operator: is the amputated part still there?
caller: the left leg may not be, but the right leg definitely is.
operator: i've got units on the way. if you can, without traumatizing her, collect those amputated parts if it's safe.
caller: the train's still moving. it's a really long train.
operator: okay, then don't try to collect them. do you have something to press against the amputations to control the bleeding?
caller: yes, we have femoral pressure on the left and a t-shirt around the right.
operator: good. just add more if it soaks through and continue with femoral pressure.
caller: we are keeping femoral pressure. two firefighters are here now.
operator: okay. i'll let you go so you can talk to them.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh my god! oh my god!
operator: this is 9-9-9. i need you to stop screaming so i can hear you.
caller: oh my god! my boyfriend, he’s been hurt! he needs an ambulance!
operator: what's wrong with him? what happened?
caller: oh my god, he was shot in the head with a gun!
operator: ma'am, i need you to calm down so i can understand you and send help. take a deep breath. what's going on?
caller: hurry! hurry! he’s not breathing!
operator: listen to me, i'm going to transfer you to the paramedics. they're going to give you cpr instructions. do not hang up, okay?
caller: okay, i understand. please hurry!
caller: baby, baby! oh my god, no!
operator: this is the fire department. what's the address of the emergency?
caller: come quick! he needs help!
operator: i need your phone number.
caller: it's [phone number]. please, come quick!
operator: okay, help is on the way. why exactly what happened?
caller: he was joking with a gun, and it went off. oh my god, help!
operator: ma'am, i'm sending the paramedics to you now.
caller: right away, please! he put the gun to his head and it just went off.
operator: help is on the way. stay with him and don't hang up the phone.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, do you have a police, fire, or medical emergency?
caller: oh, yeah. are you going to help me? because i'm bleeding. a lot.
operator: where are you bleeding?
caller: it's on my head. i have a problem with my eye. i'm bleeding so bad i can't see. i think you broke my jaw and my hand definitely.
operator: okay, try to put something on the eye to stop the bleeding.
caller: i don't think i can see from this eye. there's blood going everywhere.
caller: he's beating me with something. i'm bleeding to death.
operator: what's happening? where is he now?
caller: i think i'm going to die at this point. we have medical on the way, too, okay?
caller: i won't be able to open the door. he's going to try to kill me, my husband. please help.
operator: is he black, white, hispanic, or asian? how old is he?
caller: i'm trying to get a chance to see. i don't know. i can't see because of the blood.
operator: okay. is he still armed? does he have any other weapons?
caller: i don't know. i don't think so.
caller: he's going to get in the house. we have dogs in the backyard. please help me.
operator: can you give me a further description of your husband? is he medium-built, thin, or heavyset?
caller: he's medium-built. he's wearing green shorts.
operator: okay. do you have any guns in the house or anything like that?
caller: no. he's an ex-con.
caller: i'm bleeding a lot and he's going to come after me again.
operator: we have medical on the way. stay with me, okay?
operator: ma'am, can you see out of the other eye?
caller: yes, but barely. the ice is on my eye.
operator: okay, help is coming. hang in there.
operator: roll medical now, expedite medical. severe head injury.
operator: ma'am, go get the trauma pad out of the ambulance or the squad car. we've got medical on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 9-9-9, please send fire and medical.
operator: pardon me?
caller: somebody got shot.
operator: somebody got shot?
caller: yeah, out here in mountain dell.
operator: okay, can you tell me more about what's happening?
caller: they're still shooting. oh my god, they're still shooting.
operator: are they shooting at someone?
caller: yes, and a neighbor ran over and said the guy with them is shooting.
operator: are they trying to shoot at them?
caller: no, i'm scared.
operator: okay, ma'am, i need you to take a deep breath, okay? i'm already getting help started. please take a deep breath and tell me what's going on.
caller: mountain dell road. i'm so scared.
operator: who is it that is shooting?
caller: um, i don't know.
operator: ma'am, i need to know who's shooting.
caller: the lady is coming over, and i'm afraid to go outside.
operator: don't go outside. do you know who is shooting?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: okay, someone has been shot?
caller: i don't know. i can't go out. i'm afraid.
operator: who's shooting?
caller: it's just the neighbor. she's in my driveway, but she's yelling to call for an ambulance.
operator: she's the one that shot someone?
caller: her boyfriend shot someone.
operator: her boyfriend shot someone?
caller: yes, she said to get an ambulance quick.
operator: okay, we have help coming. so did he intentionally shoot someone?
caller: i think so.
operator: but you don't know why or who has been shot?
caller: no, i just know her son ran over and now she's parked in our driveway.
operator: so the female neighbor ran over, but her boyfriend did the shooting?
caller: well, no, her son did at first, but then her boyfriend is the one that shot.
operator: okay, do you know their names?
caller: her boyfriend is brian.
operator: brian is shot. who did the shooting?
caller: i don't know who did the shooting. she just said get an ambulance.
operator: okay, is there an active shooter out there right now?
caller: i don't know anything. she just needs an ambulance.
operator: do you know where he was shot?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: are they all out in your driveway right now?
caller: yes, they're in their car. i can't see any gun.
operator: what kind of car are they in?
caller: it's an aqua blue car.
operator: is it a sedan?
caller: yes, i think so. they just need an ambulance quick.
operator: help is on the way, but we can't approach until we know it's safe. is anyone still shooting?
caller: i don't know. the people in the car don't have a gun.
operator: okay, so someone at the house across the street has a gun, but the people in the car are safe?
caller: yes, no weapons in the car. just send an ambulance.
operator: do you know why her boyfriend was shot?
caller: no, she just said get an ambulance quick.
operator: we're sending help, but we need to know what else is going on. who else is involved?
caller: i don't know. it's just the three of them that live there.
operator: can you tell me the name of the victim?
caller: brian, i don't know his last name.
operator: do you know anything about his injuries?
caller: no, i just know the girlfriend is in her car in my driveway.
operator: what's the girlfriend's name?
caller: i don't know her last name.
operator: do you know if the son is in the car?
caller: i think it's just brian in the car.
operator: what's the son's name?
caller: i don't know. i just know there's no gun in the car.
operator: okay, we're sending help, but please stay inside and safe.
caller: thank you, it's just so scary.
operator: i understand, ma'am. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my wife's pregnant and she said she can't make it to the hospital.
operator: okay, i have somebody already dispatching units to you, okay? i'm going to ask you some questions.
caller: okay.
operator: are you with her right now?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 36.
operator: okay. is she conscious?
caller: yes.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: yes, her water just broke.
operator: her water just broke? how many weeks pregnant is she?
caller: she's 37 weeks.
operator: is the baby completely out?
caller: no, i don't see any part of the baby yet.
operator: okay, is she having contractions?
caller: yes.
operator: is this her first delivery?
caller: no, this will be our third baby.
operator: okay. how many minutes apart are her contractions?
caller: they're between two and five minutes apart.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: no, i don't see any serious bleeding.
operator: okay. does she have any high-risk complications?
caller: no.
operator: i'm sending the paramedics to help you now. stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do next.
caller: okay.
operator: do not try to prevent the birth. do not sit her on the toilet. allow her to assume the most comfortable position and have her take deep breaths between the contractions.
caller: okay.
operator: have you called her healthcare provider?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: okay. more water is coming out right now?
caller: yes, i see more water coming out.
operator: you said this was her third pregnancy. can you see the baby's head?
caller: yes, i can see the baby's head.
operator: okay, listen carefully and do exactly as i say. lay her on her back in the center of the bed or on the floor.
caller: okay.
operator: make sure all the clothing below her waist is removed. raise her head with pillows, but do not let her sit up or go to the bathroom.
caller: okay.
operator: get towels and check for pushing efforts. get some dry towels and a blanket to wrap the baby in. you're going to need a string or a shoelace to tie around the umbilical cord after the delivery.
caller: i'm getting my shoelace off right now.
operator: when the baby is born, just have it available.
caller: okay.
operator: is she pushing or straining yet?
caller: no, she's not pushing yet.
operator: okay. with each contraction, you should place your palm against the baby's head and apply firm but gentle pressure to keep the baby's head from delivering too fast.
caller: okay.
operator: as the baby delivers, support the baby's head and shoulders and hold the hips and legs firmly. remember the baby will be slippery, don't drop it.
caller: okay.
operator: is the baby out?
caller: yes, the baby is out.
operator: is the baby crying?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, gently wipe off the baby's mouth and nose. dry the baby off with a clean towel, then wrap the baby in the clean, dry towel and cover the baby's head but not its face.
caller: okay.
operator: without pulling the cord tight, put the baby in the mother's arms or on her belly. be sure to keep the baby and the mom warm.
caller: got it.
operator: do you have the shoelace?
caller: yes, i have it.
operator: listen carefully, and i'll tell you what to do next. without pulling on the cord, tie the shoelace tightly around the umbilical cord about six inches from the baby but do not cut it.
caller: okay.
operator: now we're going to deliver the afterbirth. do not pull on the cord. the afterbirth should be delivering soon. tell me if anything changes.
caller: okay. i see some bleeding.
operator: yes, she will bleed a bit. do not pull on the cord. let it come naturally.
caller: okay, understood.
operator: do you have a little baby girl or a boy?
caller: it's a boy.
operator: congratulations! how's his color?
caller: he's very pink.
operator: great. check her vagina again. do you see the afterbirth?
caller: i see the afterbirth is still inside.
operator: is there any serious bleeding or cramping?
caller: no, it doesn't look serious.
operator: okay, you're doing great. just stay right where you are and keep the baby wrapped up. the paramedics should be arriving soon.
caller: okay.
operator: if she feels like she has to push to get the placenta out, let her push.
caller: will do.
operator: hi, what's your name?
caller: dina.
operator: hi dina, my name is janet. you've done a great job.
caller: thank you.
operator: you mentioned this was your third baby? were all your other babies born this quickly?
caller: no, they took longer.
operator: that's okay. the paramedics are almost there. just try to keep calm and breathe. you're both doing great.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: well, it's not an emergency, but do you know why on one side at the damn drawbridge on 95 traffic can stop for 15 minutes?
operator: are you calling 999 to complain about traffic?
caller: yeah, somebody gave me a hard time. i called your number to find out why there's a delay. it's been about 22 minutes on the drawbridge, and i'm in the front car, and i can see something happening on the bridge.
operator: sir, what's your complaint? what exactly is the issue you're calling about?
caller: i pulled up to the drawbridge, the light goes red. i think it's malfunctioning because there's nothing happening on the drawbridge.
operator: okay. so there's traffic coming, and you're trying to go left on the drawbridge, correct?
caller: yes, and there's been traffic coming the other way for the last 23 minutes, but nothing is happening. the light is red, there's a drop gate with six blinking lights, but no bridge going up.
operator: did you call 999 just to report this issue?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, well, the person you spoke to before was trying to explain that 999 is for emergencies only, not for traffic issues.
caller: no, but this isn't just traffic. this is a serious malfunction affecting a lot of people.
operator: i understand, but is it creating just a traffic backup or is there more to it?
caller: it's more than a backup. this is absurd. we're all just stuck here with no idea what's going on.
operator: unfortunately, sir, we don't have control over the drawbridge. you might want to contact vdot or maryland's department of transportation. we can't help with traffic signals or bridge malfunctions.
caller: i live in alexandria, but i'm not even on the alexandria side right now.
operator: i understand. contacting the state departments responsible for the bridge might give you more answers.
caller: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please help me. i'm amanda berry.
operator: do you need police, fire, or an ambulance?
caller: i need police.
operator: okay. and what's going on there?
caller: i've been kidnapped and i've been missing for 10 years and i'm here. i'm free now.
operator: okay. and what's your address?
caller: 22-07 seymour avenue.
operator: 22-07 seymour. it looks like you're calling me from 2210?
scenario:fire
caller: i'm across the street, i'm using the phone.
operator: okay, stay there with those neighbors. talk to the police when they get there.
caller: okay.
operator: we're sending them as soon as we get a car open.
caller: no, i need them now before he gets back.
operator: all right. we're sending them, okay?
caller: okay, his name is ariel castro.
operator: all right, how old is he?
caller: he is like 52.
operator: and you said, what was his name again?
caller: ariel castro.
operator: is he white, black, or hispanic? what's he wearing?
caller: i don't know because he's not here right now.
operator: when he left, what was he wearing?
caller: the police are on the way, talk to them when they get there, okay?
operator: i told you they're on the way. talk to them when they get there, okay?
caller: all right, okay. thank you. bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, it's area 617.
operator: all right. what's your emergency?
caller: a child has been left on my doorstep.
operator: okay. what's your address?
caller: it's 90 newton, lower falls.
operator: okay, how old is the child?
caller: it fits in a small basket.
operator: you would say a baby?
caller: pardon? yes, it's a baby.
operator: okay, when did you notice it?
caller: i just went out to check the temperature outside before i went on an errand. and there was this bassinet with the child in it and a little note.
operator: and what does the note say?
caller: the note says, please take good care of this child.
operator: all right. is the baby breathing?
caller: yes, the baby is breathing.
operator: what's your phone number, sir?
caller: it's 617-xxx-xxxx.
operator: all right, i'm going to send an officer over right away. did you bring the baby inside?
caller: yes, i brought the baby inside.
operator: okay, are you there by yourself?
caller: no, my wife is here, but she's ill.
operator: okay, we'll be right there. thank you, sir.
caller: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: someone was just shot and robbed.
operator: where did this happen?
caller: behind the club, sharky's, the street beside sharky's.
operator: was the person shot or are they on the ground and bleeding?
caller: the club, he was shot, he's on the ground and bleeding.
operator: he's by sharky's?
caller: yes, the street beside sharky's. do you know the neighborhood melts on us?
operator: okay. is he white or black?
caller: he's shot in the head, i can't... he looks mixed.
operator: can you tell me the name of the street?
caller: blue street, blue street. i'm on blue street.
operator: he's on blue street?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: where exactly on blue street is he laying?
caller: everybody is walking away and leaving him. he's laying on the ground.
operator: hold on, ma'am, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: have y'all found somebody?
caller: he's dead. he's laying on the ground. he was shot. somebody needs to help him.
operator: what's the address?
caller: we're on blue street, in the middle of the street. 9.44 black boulevard and sharkey.
operator: you're at the corner of blue street and bragg boulevard?
caller: no, i'm in the middle of blue street.
operator: is that off jefferson road?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: so you're not on bragg boulevard?
caller: it's off bragg boulevard and it's on michelin road. they meet, and the street is in the middle of them.
operator: alright, i'm sending help. can you stay on the phone with me?
caller: i'm right by the police, by martin luther king. something was just built here.
operator: okay. what's your telephone number?
operator: exactly what happened?
caller: i don't know, sir. i was driving down the street, and these dudes stopped me. they were waving and panicking. at first i didn't stop because i was scared, but then i saw the man in the street, so i stopped. they asked me to call 999 because he was shot.
operator: so somebody was shot?
caller: yes, he was shot and robbed.
operator: do you know the age of the patient?
caller: no, i think he's dead, sir.
operator: help is being dispatched while i'm talking to you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: no, he's not.
operator: alright, you can hang up once you're with the police.
caller: he told me to hang up. i'll hang up now, thank you.
operator: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, 999.
operator: are you okay? what's going on?
operator: are you able to talk at all?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i've combined it. no, he's... yes, sir, this is...
caller: and i called to all at 24, somebody to come out here. please, because he'd been called...
operator: is this on norman avenue?
caller: oh, it can be tennessee.
operator: what's the name of the street again, ma'am?
caller: okay, hold on one second for me, let me find it, okay?
caller: yes, sir. i'm calling about my son.
caller: i don't have any family here or god.
operator: okay, is this sheila jones?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: well, ms. jones, we have your call. we haven't dispatched on it yet.
caller: y'all haven't dispatched on it?
operator: no, ma'am.
caller: what do you mean you haven't dispatched? you're not going to come out and nobody's coming out here?
operator: yes, ma'am. as soon as the sergeant gets an officer, he'll send somebody out there.
caller: i mean, i've been sick. if he kills me, he keeps on calling somebody, he's going to kill me.
caller: why doesn't anyone listen? if he comes, he'll kill me. he said he's gonna kill me.
caller: he said it right in front of the cable man. the cable man was in my house.
caller: so it ain't like i'm making this up.
caller: he called me and said i better not come outside and to watch my back. i think he hit my window.
caller: i don't know what's going on.
caller: do you want him to kill me so you can put yellow tape around and say you got here just for the devil? is that it?
caller: i don't understand it. i'm scared to leave my house.
operator: okay, ma'am, we'll get someone out there as soon as possible.
caller: i really just don't give a shit what happens, yeah.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i am, you know, there's an emergency.
operator: okay, ma'am, what's your location?
caller: yes, i am on hough road.
caller: i am in water, and it's taken me away.
operator: okay, ma'am, we're on the way. you're at hough road and where?
caller: i'm right in the middle of hough road.
operator: what's the nearest crossway, do you think?
caller: summit estates drive.
operator: okay, stay on the line. what's your name?
caller: erica strickland.
operator: okay, erica. help is on the way.
caller: please, hurry, ma'am.
operator: are you the only one in the car?
caller: yes, and my car's starting to flood.
operator: okay, all right. they're on the way. please try to remain calm.
caller: ma'am, it's coming in quick!
operator: no, they're on the way, erica. stay calm.
caller: what do i need to do, ma'am?
operator: right now, you can't do much. your car died, correct?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay. is there anybody else around?
caller: no, nobody.
operator: all right. what color is your vehicle?
caller: it's gray.
operator: okay. stay on the line.
caller: can i try and get out and get on my roof?
operator: no, stay in the car. we're getting help. please stay on the line, erica.
caller: please hurry.
operator: erica, you're not going to go into the water, okay?
caller: but it's coming in fast.
operator: do not go into the water.
caller: are they coming, ma'am?
operator: yes, they are. i know it seems like a long time, but just try to stay calm.
caller: are they going to be able to help me?
operator: yes, they will. just hang in there.
caller: i was trying to get home. my husband's been in the hospital all night. i was getting his prescription.
operator: just stay with me, erica. it's just you in the car, right?
caller: yes, ma'am. please hurry.
operator: listen, don't get out of the vehicle and don't go into the water, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: stay on the line with me. i'm here with you.
caller: i'm sorry.
operator: you're not going to die, ma'am. stay in the car.
caller: how are they going to get to me if the road is flooded?
operator: they have all kinds of ways to get to you, okay?
caller: are you sure i can't get out and get on my roof?
operator: no, stay calm, okay?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: erica, i want you to release your seatbelt if you have it on.
caller: okay.
operator: and unlock your door. do not open the door, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: erica, it's the sheriff's department. are you on the north or the south side of summit estates, do you know?
caller: i'm right in the middle, right where you go over the little bridge. please, hurry.
operator: they're on the way, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: you need to tell me if the water reaches the bottom of your window.
caller: it's at my hood, but it's coming up fast.
operator: let me know if the water reaches your window, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: stay on the line.
caller: please talk to me.
operator: i'm here, erica. i'm here.
caller: my husband was in the hospital last night, and i was getting a prescription.
operator: okay, and you had passed through there before and were coming back?
caller: yes, i had to get his prescription. he was in bad pain.
operator: have you called him or did you just call us?
caller: no, i called you right away.
operator: good, good. just hang in there, okay?
caller: are they on the way?
operator: yes, they've been on the way.
caller: where's the water now?
operator: just relax. they're coming, okay?
caller: please just tell them to hurry.
operator: they are. hang in there.
caller: i just don't want to drown.
operator: that's not going to happen. stay with me.
caller: how are they going to get to me if the road is flooded?
operator: they have ways, erica. trust us.
caller: please just tell them to hurry, please.
operator: they are hurrying. i promise.
caller: okay.
operator: erica, i want you to release your seatbelt, if you haven't already.
caller: it's off, ma'am.
operator: okay, all right. unlock your door, but do not open it.
caller: okay.
operator: is the water up to your window?
caller: it's at my hood but not at my window yet.
operator: okay, let me know if it gets higher.
caller: okay. i'm scared.
operator: i know, but they're coming.
caller: what should i do now?
operator: just stay calm and hold on, erica.
caller: yes, ma'am. please hurry.
operator: i'm here with you. don't worry.
caller: i'm holding on. i just don't want to drown.
operator: you're not going to drown. we're here with you. help is coming.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. i'm here with you.
caller: it's coming in faster. i can see it.
operator: stay calm, erica. as hard as it is, stay calm.
caller: how long will they take?
operator: they should be there soon. just hang on.
caller: are they talking to you?
operator: yes, they say they can see you. just hang on.
caller: what should i do if the water gets higher?
operator: if the water reaches your window, let me know immediately, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are you wearing a seatbelt?
caller: no, i took it off.
operator: good. keep the door unlocked but closed.
caller: okay.
operator: erica, are you still with me?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: good, just hang on.
caller: okay, i'll try.
operator: you're doing great.
caller: thank you.
operator: stay on the line with me.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: they're coming to get you.
caller: i see them!
operator: good! help is there. hang on, they'll get you out.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe and listen to their directions.
caller: yes, ma'am. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: come on.
caller: yes.
caller: no.
caller: no, there's nothing to talk about.
operator: this is 9-9-9. how can i assist you?
caller: there's nothing to talk about.
caller: get away.
caller: no, get away.
caller: i don't know you, no.
caller: you're not going to be.
caller: i'm hanging up.
scenario:medical
caller: come on, baby, joe, come here.
caller: come on, come on me.
caller: no, come my mama, come on.
caller: no, you not leave your mama.
caller: you're going to home.
caller: don't home. don't leave me.
caller: just pull me back when you're going to talk to me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, my daughter is not breathing.
operator: okay, what's the address?
caller: 5940.
operator: okay, what's the street?
caller: carson.
operator: i'm going to ask a few more questions to help you. are you with her right now?
caller: yes, i'm holding her in my hands.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's two months.
operator: is she awake?
caller: no, she's not awake.
operator: is she conscious? can you wake her up?
caller: i'm trying to wake her. i'm shaking her.
operator: don't shake her. is she breathing?
caller: i don't know. i don't think so.
operator: i'm giving this information to my dispatcher. don't hang up, okay? we got help on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: you said you don't think she's breathing, right?
caller: no, but she isn't turning any color.
operator: okay, are you right there with her?
caller: yeah.
operator: listen carefully. you need to lay the baby flat on her back on the floor and remove any pillows. let me know when you've done that.
caller: alright.
operator: kneel next to her and look into her mouth for food or vomit. is there anything in her mouth?
caller: no.
operator: place your hand on the baby's forehead and your other hand under her neck and shoulders and slightly tilt the head back. can you repeat that?
caller: place my hand on her forehead and my other hand under her neck and shoulders and tilt her head back.
operator: that's right. put your ear next to her mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: no.
operator: okay. we'll have to start cpr. with the baby's head slightly tilted back, completely cover her mouth and nose with your mouth, and blow two puffs of air into her lungs about one second each, just enough to make the chest rise. did you feel the air going in and out?
caller: i'm trying. one second.
operator: you need to do two puffs of air into the lungs, about one second each.
caller: okay, done.
operator: now listen carefully. i'm going to tell you how to do chest compressions. make sure the baby is flat on her back and place two fingers on the breastbone right between the nipples.
caller: okay.
operator: now push down about an inch and a half with only your fingers touching the chest. pump the chest hard and fast 30 times, at least twice per second. let the chest come all the way up between pumps. tell me when you're done.
caller: alright, counting...
operator: count out loud to 30.
caller: one, two, three, four... thirty.
operator: now with your hand under her neck and shoulders, tilt her head back and give her two more puffs of air.
caller: two more puffs. got it.
operator: then pump the chest 30 more times. tell me when you're done.
caller: okay.
operator: make sure your fingers are on the breastbone between the nipples. have you done 30 pumps?
caller: yes.
operator: now give her two more puffs of air. then pump the chest 30 times again. let me know when you're finished.
caller: okay.
operator: keep going. two puffs, then 30 pumps.
caller: did it.
operator: is she showing any signs of breathing now?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: keep repeating this cycle. two puffs, 30 pumps. help is on the way.
caller: okay, i'm doing it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes. well, i'm locked in my car.
operator: you're locked in your car or out of your car?
caller: yes, in my car.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm in woodenvale on avondale.
operator: how would you be locked in your car?
caller: well, what happened is i got in my car and i turned on the ignition and everything died on it.
operator: okay. and you can't just manually open your door?
caller: no, i can't open my door. i am actually locked in here and my windows are locked.
operator: all right. did you try the passenger door to see if you can open it?
caller: no, hang on. oh, thank you. i have no idea. oh, my worry. i'm so scared.
operator: okay, no problem, ma'am. you're safe. try to remain calm. how did you know that?
caller: i'm a 999 operator, so it happens. all right. at least i can get out of here. okay, so much.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, excuse me, sir, some helicopters came down.
operator: a helicopter came down?
caller: yes.
operator: where is this?
caller: in the indian high school and the indian middle school.
operator: is it a crash or a landing?
caller: the middle school, dayton.
operator: you're saying it's a helicopter crash?
caller: yes, helicopter crash.
operator: 9-9-9, where is your emergency?
caller: hi, the emergency is in the medici field, next to indian park field school.
operator: indian field school?
caller: yes, a helicopter just crashed.
operator: a helicopter just crashed?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: do you know if there are any injuries?
caller: i have no idea. i can't see that far. we saw it listing as it went over the house and heard the engine go out and it fell.
caller: heard the big boom. have no idea who's in it.
operator: is anybody hurt?
caller: i don't know. we don't see it. you want me to check it?
operator: sure. can you, are you able to safely check?
caller: hold on. i need to cross here. oh my god. somebody's there.
operator: somebody's hurt?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. how bad are they hurt? can you see?
caller: oh, and the gasoline has come out.
operator: okay, don't go near it. is there any fire?
caller: no, there's no fire here.
operator: okay, there's no fire. but where are you exactly?
caller: you find indian field school?
operator: yes.
caller: i'm exactly in the front. on the left side of the school.
operator: okay. how big is the helicopter? can you see if it's large or small?
caller: don't move it. alright, there are two people in the helicopter.
operator: can anyone safely get them out?
caller: i think he is an instructor.
operator: can you get him out?
caller: no, i think he can't move. we already have one lady out.
operator: are you able to get them out of the helicopter?
caller: we don't have to move them.
operator: alright, but is anyone else with you?
caller: more workers.
operator: can you talk to the people in the helicopter? are they conscious?
caller: hold on.
operator: okay. don't move. stay on the ground.
caller: stay on the floor. don't move it. help is coming.
operator: are you talking to one of the patients?
caller: yes.
operator: what's the major complaint? what hurts?
caller: it hurts, don't move.
operator: alright, try and keep them stable. the ambulance is coming.
caller: okay, they're taking out the girl.
operator: sir, how many people are hurt?
caller: two people on the helicopter.
operator: is anyone else hurt?
caller: no, everything is okay.
operator: alright. officers are there?
caller: yes, the officers are here.
operator: thank you very much.
caller: okay, goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a shooting going on, local shooting.
operator: shooting where?
caller: in the ihop.
operator: in the ihop?
caller: in the ihop. automatic weapons.
operator: how many are inside?
caller: we've got one guy going in. now he's coming back out with a gun. he's shooting people in the parking lot.
operator: he's got an automatic weapon?
caller: yes, automatic weapons.
operator: okay, we're on the way. are you in a safe place?
caller: oh no, he's shooting at us now!
operator: all right, see if you can get to a safe place.
caller: he's shooting at us with automatic weapons!
operator: is it a long gun?
caller: yes, one guy with an automatic weapon. he's shooting everybody.
operator: can you describe him?
caller: he's wearing a red shirt.
operator: red shirt and a long gun. understood. we have officers on the way.
caller: i'm at a local barbecue nearby, not at ihop.
operator: okay, you're at the local barbecue. are you in a safe place?
caller: yes, she's in a safe place.
operator: what's your name, please?
caller: ralph swagler, local's barbecue.
operator: ralph, what's your phone number?
caller: 841-999-9999.
operator: can you still see the shooter?
caller: no, he may be over by the wells fargo building or going towards raley's.
operator: you only saw one guy with a gun?
caller: yes, one guy with a gun, red shirt, automatic weapon.
operator: keep yourself in a safe place and lock your doors, okay?
caller: yes, the doors are locked.
operator: 999, are you reporting the shooting at ihop?
caller: yes, i am. this is casino fandango. i heard the pops and saw him run out of the building shooting people.
operator: you have people down in the parking lot?
caller: yes, and i heard he shot himself.
operator: do you see the shooter now?
caller: no, i don't see him.
operator: where was the shooter last seen?
caller: by a blue van between local's barbecue and ihop. he shot himself in the head.
operator: several people are down, right?
caller: yes.
operator: we're getting help on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, hey, right now, a man.
caller: yo, there's a guy, there's a guy.
caller: he's at the mall with a gun right now.
operator: okay, where in the mall is he?
caller: he's at the community college right now.
operator: is he inside the building or outside?
caller: he's just outside the building.
caller: he's shooting people right now!
operator: does anybody know what he looks like?
caller: he's a white guy, with short hair. he has a shotgun.
operator: do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: i'm outside. i haven't seen him shoot anyone, but he's in the building now.
operator: did you see what kind of vehicle he arrived in?
caller: a white honda civic.
operator: stay on the line. do not go inside. we have officers on their way.
caller: he's running into the mall right now.
operator: okay, where exactly in the mall is he heading?
caller: towards the main entrance. he just entered the mall.
operator: please stay where you are and do not go inside. we have officers responding.
caller: alright.
operator: can you see any officers approaching?
caller: yes, they are heading towards the entrance right now.
operator: alright, thank you. stay safe.
caller: hi, i just want to make sure that somebody has called about the guy with a shotgun at new river community college.
operator: yes, we have officers on their way. do you know if anyone is injured?
caller: i'm not inside; i just saw the guy run in.
operator: okay, stay safe. thank you for calling.
caller: hello, there's someone shooting in the mall.
operator: do you know if anybody is hurt?
caller: no clue. we locked our store, but people are running everywhere.
operator: okay, stay in your store and keep the door locked. we have officers on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, someone at new river community college has a shotgun!
operator: what does he look like?
caller: he's a young white male, short hair, wearing a t-shirt.
operator: is everyone leaving the building?
caller: yes, everyone's trying to get out.
operator: do you know if anyone is hurt?
caller: i'm not sure; i'm outside.
operator: can you tell where he parked his car?
caller: a white four-door car right in front of the doors.
operator: okay, stay safe. we have officers coming.
caller: thank you.
caller: hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at christiansburg mall and there's a shooter.
operator: do you know if the shooter is still in the college area or in the mall?
caller: i'm not sure, but people are saying he's in the mall now.
operator: are you in a safe location?
caller: yes, i'm in a locked store.
operator: stay locked in and keep away from the doors. we have officers on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, we were told to lock down all the stores at the mall. what's going on?
operator: there's a gunman inside the mall. keep your door locked and stay inside. we have officers responding.
caller: okay, we've got five customers in here with us.
operator: that’s good. stay safe and keep the doors locked.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm feeling my bird in the back.
operator: i understand. where are you?
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: what is the phone number that you're calling from, ma'am?
operator: tell me exactly what's going on.
operator: ma'am?
operator: tell me exactly what's going on.
operator: calmly tell me what's going on.
caller: let it go!
operator: hello?
caller: let it go!
caller: let me shoot you. one?
caller: they're not, let it go, let it go!
operator: hello?
operator: hello?
operator: hello?
scenario:robbery
operator: hello, ma'am.
operator: hello, ma'am.
caller: oh my god.
caller: i was sitting straight through.
caller: hello, no, sir.
caller: this is a mammary date.
caller: please, i have someone on the line. i don't know what happened.
caller: oh, my god. you might have doubt about my face.
operator: hello, ma'am.
caller: yes, it's a 9-9-9 emergency.
operator: this is 9-9-9, sir.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: hello, ma'am.
caller: and this is 4-1-1-2-2-2-2-5.
operator: hello, ma'am.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: ma'am, i need you to tell me what's going on.
caller: night, okay, we're trying to scare him. i think we might have shot him.
operator: what, what?
operator: okay, i need you to tell me what is going on, ma'am.
caller: okay. okay? oh, my... okay. he was stealing our, oh my god, he was stealing our wayrunner.
caller: i hit him. we're trying to scare him. i just tried to stop the gun by mistake. i was trying to scare him. i was trying to scare him. i thought he nuts.
caller: yeah, i did.
operator: did you hear him, ma'am?
caller: okay. i think i did. he was in your backyard?
caller: uh, yes. he was in my backyard. he was trying to get into the house. so i told my son to get a gun.
caller: i know he's okay okay where is he now where listen listen listen where is he now
caller: he's in the water he's in the water
operator: the water? the person is in the water, ma'am?
operator: calm, calm, calm, come. yes, she's in the water.
operator: who's in the water, listen to me, listen to me for a second because you're not, ma'am, okay?
operator: the person that you shot, he's in the water?
caller: yes and this blood i think he might be dead i don't know.
operator: okay, stay on the line. don't hang up, don't hang up, hold on.
caller: i have a gun. so we shot.
operator: do you know where you shot him?
caller: no, i know. i just shot towards him.
caller: i was trying to scare him. because when i get the gun, and i was going to scare him, and the guy turns out, i have a gun. so then i shot.
operator: okay, so, okay, after you shot him, did he fall into the water?
caller: yeah, i see the water right now. i'm trying to get him out.
operator: okay, is he in this, is this a canal behind your house?
caller: yes, it's up a bay.
caller: i thought he was going to shoot because he said he had a gun.
caller: i mean, i tried to scare him, but i didn't think i was trying to shoot for, you know, i don't know how to shoot, so i was just shooting towards him, not towards him, but you know what i'm saying.
operator: right, i understand.
caller: i think i'm not about him because i see him a lot that he's in the water.
caller: i was just trying to scare him, but he said he had a gun, so i said, okay, i'm going to shoot to scare him.
operator: was he black or white, ma'am?
caller: he's right there.
operator: ma'am, is he out of the water now?
caller: listen to the water.
operator: no, listen to me. ma'am, is he out of the water now?
caller: no, no, no, he's not. he's not. he's in the water.
caller: he's trying to steal the... their water, and he's trying to get into the house.
caller: so i have some stop. go away. i said, i have a gun. i tell him.
operator: all right.
operator: what are you talking to now?
caller: a cop. he just came.
operator: all right. and what else happened?
caller: so i shot some warrant. i said, so i said, so i said, i said, i have a gun to scare him i didn't have a gun.
caller: i didn't have a gun. i just got him. you got the deskk's over there. i have a gun. i have a gun. so i shut to war. i'm trying to scare him. oh my gosh.
operator: okay. so you're talking to the police now, ma'am?
caller: i'm not yet. keep here.
operator: all right, i'm going to hang up. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: are you out of the house yet?
operator: no.
operator: all right, get out of the house.
caller: we can't. there's nothing open. if i open the door, it's too much smoke.
operator: okay. all right. what's your name?
caller: huh?
operator: what's your name?
caller: elie j. spry.
operator: all right. try to get out of the house if you can.
caller: sorry, you still there?
operator: yes. okay. i'm going to stay on the phone with you, all right?
caller: okay.
caller: house part, true trap.
operator: okay, honey, are you on the first floor or second floor? where in the house are you?
caller: second floor.
operator: you're on the second floor?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, if i'm looking at your house, are you on the left or the right side?
caller: i'm all the way at the top.
operator: you're all the way at the top?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, you're on the second floor. if i come up your stairs, which way do i turn to get to you?
caller: um, you're up the stairs.
caller: i'm in the room that has the door closed.
operator: you're in the room that has the door closed? all the other rooms have doors open?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, can you get to a window and open it?
caller: yes.
operator: is the window open now?
caller: yes.
operator: can you see if it's the front of the house or the back of the house?
caller: i'm in the back. i'm on the side of the house.
operator: which side? if i'm looking at your house, is it the right or the left side?
caller: i'm on the right.
operator: okay, hold on one second.
caller: okay.
operator: ma'am, how many people are in the room?
caller: one, two, three, four, five. we have five people in the room.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a car ran through and ran over about five or six, seven people. a man is laying on the ground, his head is bleeding, and there are two babies on the ground.
operator: okay, what's the phone number you're calling from, please?
caller: ma'am, do you need an ambulance?
operator: yes, we need helicopters, we need everything.
operator: what is the address?
caller: it's the universe.
operator: what is the problem?
caller: what is the problem? i just explained it. people are on the ground, people ran over. we need help immediately.
operator: ma'am, i can't hear you very well. it's too much noise in the background. what was the address?
caller: are you at 13th and w street?
operator: yes, that home street, where the uniform is at?
caller: are you on martin luther king or w?
operator: i'm at 13th and w street.
caller: no, stay down, stay down.
operator: what's going on at 13th? someone was hit by a car?
caller: yes.
operator: south east?
caller: yes, it's right down the street from the unifax.
operator: okay, we have that call, sir. we'll send help, okay?
caller: alright.
operator: 9-9-9, police, fire, or ambulance?
caller: can i have the ambulance? mapleview and king avenue.
operator: in reference to that action, we have two officers hurt. mapleview and king avenue. two officers hurt. okay.
operator: ambulance 13, battalion 3, safety officer and rescue squad 3, respond. report of multiple pedestrians struck, king avenue and w street southeast.
caller: 13th and w street southeast, correct.
caller: 13th and w. south east?
caller: 13th and w. struck by a car down here. we got like three people hurt.
operator: okay, 13th and w street, south east, correct? someone was struck by a car?
caller: yeah, we got three people out here.
operator: okay, i'll send the police and the ambulance, okay?
caller: alright. he's conscious and breathing. what's your, you said your officer brown?
operator: yes. 13th and w street, south east.
caller: please respond. okay. bye.
operator: hi, my name is ramah ayers. i'm from chicago, so i don't know exactly where i'm at, but a car just drove through a festival and there are people who are severely hurt.
caller: a car just drove through where?
operator: they drove to a festival and hit tons of people. there are tons of severely hurt people.
caller: can you try to find out where you are?
operator: i am on 13th street and the 200 block of 13th street southeast.
caller: 200 block of 13th street south east? okay, we will have the ambulance and police respond.
operator: i count at least five people on the ground, three of them cops.
caller: okay, i'll update and let them know. thank you.
operator: you are welcome. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: number one. listen to me.
operator: calm down and i'll tell you what to do, okay?
operator: how old is she?
caller: okay, and you said she's having a seizure?
operator: okay, okay, calm down. take a deep breath. i'm going to get an ambulance over there, but i need you to calm down, okay?
operator: the first thing you need to do is make sure that there's nothing around your mom that's going to hurt her. clear the area so when she's having a seizure, she doesn't hurt herself, okay?
operator: okay, don't put anything in her mouth. don't try to hold her down. just let her have the seizure. she's going to be just fine, okay?
operator: once she stops shaking, i need you to check her breathing for me, okay?
caller: she did.
operator: they're checking her breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: is she coming out of it?
caller: i don't know. she's not breathing.
operator: okay. does anybody there know cpr?
caller: yes.
operator: who knows cpr? who can i talk to to give cpr instructions?
caller: no one knows. my dad's not home.
operator: okay, what i need you to do is listen to me, and i'll tell you what to do, okay?
operator: turn her flat on her back.
caller: okay, she is.
operator: go ahead and kneel down by her side. you said she's not breathing, right?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, pinch her nose closed with one hand, and with the other hand, lift her chin up to tilt the head back.
caller: yes.
operator: now, completely cover her mouth with your mouth and give her two big breaths, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is that her making noise?
caller: yes.
operator: is she trying to breathe on her own?
caller: yes.
operator: is there anything in her throat, like vomit or phlegm?
caller: no, she's not throwing up.
operator: is air getting into her lungs? is her chest rising and falling?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: is she moving, coughing, or breathing normally yet?
caller: oh, no, she's starting to breathe normally.
operator: okay, then roll her onto her side and stay with her. keep her on her side.
caller: okay. one sec.
caller: mom. he gave her two breaths, and i could hear gurgling.
caller: i can't get her on her side.
operator: can you turn her head to the side so she doesn't choke?
caller: i'm trying.
operator: is she waking up?
caller: she's moaning. yes, she's on the bed.
operator: tell her the ambulance is on the way. stay with her and i'll stay on the phone, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: has she ever had a seizure before?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: what happened before this happened?
caller: we were just out front.
operator: is she allergic to anything, like a bee sting, or did she hit her head recently?
caller: yes, she hit her head.
operator: when did she hit her head? today?
caller: no, she has a brain injury.
operator: okay. we're going to help her. we'll be there in just a minute. you said 905 dennery lane?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: dylan.
operator: spell it for me.
caller: d-y-l-a-n.
operator: how old are you, dylan?
caller: i'm 11.
operator: you're doing a very good job, okay? what's your phone number?
caller: um, 577-1489.
operator: okay. how is your mom? is she still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: who else is there with you?
caller: just me and my little brother.
operator: how old is your little brother?
caller: he's 5. we were just out front when she dropped.
operator: your mom is 35 years old?
caller: yes.
caller: are you going to send an ambulance?
operator: yes, they're on their way. when did your mom get her brain injury?
caller: april 5th.
operator: april 5th of this year or last year?
caller: last year.
operator: okay. you've never seen her have a seizure before?
caller: no.
operator: are you still with me?
caller: yes, i'm here.
operator: is your mom ok? is she coming around?
caller: yeah, kind of.
operator: is she waking up?
caller: kind of. her eyes are open.
operator: can you talk to her? is she able to answer you?
caller: mom? no, she's not answering.
operator: but her eyes are open?
caller: yes.
operator: and you have her rolled over?
caller: kind of.
operator: is her breathing normal? is her chest rising and falling?
caller: yes.
operator: i think the police or the ambulance are there now.
caller: yes, i see them.
operator: if that's the police or the firemen, go ahead and talk to them. i'm going to hang up now, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: good job, dylan.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no.
operator: what is the address?
caller: sorry, 763 south, 475 east.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: um, we have somebody, sorry.
operator: okay, do you need an ambulance?
caller: um, my, okay, hold on just one second.
caller: we got robbed, and we were cooperating with the guy, and my husband was finally able to get to his gun and shot him.
operator: okay.
operator: avonable units respond to 763 south, 475 east, possible home invasion, weapons involved, one shot fired.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: can you tell me where the suspect is?
caller: he's in our bedroom.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: he's dead. he's dead. my husband is taking the bullets out of the gun.
operator: okay. i'd like him just to set it down and take a deep breath. is there only one suspect?
caller: only one that i know of.
operator: do you know the individual?
caller: no. i woke up to him in our room.
operator: okay, ma'am?
caller: yes.
operator: alright. does anybody need an ambulance other than the person that was shot?
caller: no. you and your husband are okay?
operator: yes, we're okay.
operator: are there any other suspects that you're concerned about in your home?
caller: not that i know of. he came in alone?
caller: yes. he came in alone as far as we know.
operator: and you don't know who he is or anything about him?
caller: no.
operator: okay, i'd like you to put the gun somewhere obvious to the officer. it's on the table.
caller: okay, i think my husband went to the bathroom, but it's on the table. i can see it, and i'm standing by the front door unlocked.
operator: alright. the gun holder has taken the bullets out and set the gun on the table. please step away from the weapon.
operator: i'm going to keep you on the phone just to make sure that you're safe, okay?
caller: okay, honey, don't touch anything. don't touch anything and don't touch him.
operator: are you certain he is deceased?
caller: yes, i am positive he is deceased. my husband checked his pulse.
operator: okay, alright. just keep away from him just in case, okay?
caller: he's upstairs right now.
operator: did that person have a weapon, too?
caller: he said he did, but we never saw one.
operator: okay. i have officers there. i want you to unlock your door.
caller: we're right here by the front door. it's unlocked.
operator: okay, open your door. you should have an officer there.
caller: yes, right here.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go. they're going to take over from here, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is donna savings, and we've just been robbed.
operator: what is your address?
caller: 10381 south de anza boulevard.
operator: okay, hold on. was there any vehicle involved?
caller: um, let me check with someone. hold on.
operator: okay, did you see the vehicle?
caller: yes, it was a light gray or silver buick regal, a big sedan, four doors.
operator: did you get the license plate?
caller: no, i didn't. i didn't realize what was going on until it was too late.
operator: can you switch me to someone who can give me a description of the suspect?
caller: sure, one moment.
caller: hello, i'm a customer. it's a black male.
operator: okay, how old approximately?
caller: i would say between 30 and 40 years old.
operator: was there a weapon involved?
caller: yes, it was a handgun, an automatic.
operator: please stay on the line with me.
caller: okay.
operator: can you describe how tall he was?
caller: possibly 5'8".
operator: and his weight?
caller: about 180 to 195 pounds.
operator: what was he wearing?
caller: a dark-colored baseball cap, sunglasses, a mustache, and a plaid shirt.
operator: what color was the plaid shirt?
caller: black, tan, and white.
operator: okay, thank you. please stay safe. authorities are on their way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, this is being transferred.
operator: go ahead, sir.
caller: yeah, i need a unit here, probably an ambulance. i saw a lady, she was yelling for help. it looked like she had blood all over her.
operator: okay, sir, where is this happening?
caller: 3-7-885, highway 79 south. it's called coconate.
operator: can you ask her what the emergency is?
caller: yes, yeah, yeah. there's somebody... somebody killed someone.
operator: okay. where is the suspect?
caller: the person has gone.
operator: is there anyone else with her?
caller: i'm in the house. the person is still here.
operator: is he outside?
caller: yeah, i'm in the house.
operator: okay, where is the suspect?
caller: here, here, here.
operator: i have the address. where is the suspect?
caller: somebody else already called.
operator: i need information on where the suspect is.
caller: yes, yes. here with me.
operator: is the suspect with her?
caller: yes, right.
operator: what's his name?
caller: john, it's john.
operator: his name is john, and he's in trailer 92?
caller: yes.
operator: is the shooter inside the trailer?
caller: yeah, right.
operator: how does she know john?
caller: we live in the same neighborhood.
operator: did she hang up the phone?
caller: oh, i think she hung up.
operator: did you get that the shooter was in the trailer?
caller: yes.
operator: what kind of gun?
caller: can you ask her where the suspect is?
operator: where is the suspect?
caller: the gunman has left the building, but i think one has died, and one is in critical condition. you need to send help right away.
operator: does she know his name?
caller: there were two men shooting?
operator: how many people were shooting?
caller: just one.
operator: what race was he?
caller: i think he's korean.
operator: does she know his name?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: do you need paramedics?
caller: no, somebody killed... i'm dying.
operator: are you hurt?
caller: no, i'm dreaming.
operator: what's going on?
caller: somebody shot... yeah, somebody shot.
operator: are you shot?
caller: i'm killing.
operator: okay, what language do you speak?
caller: korean.
operator: did you say somebody shot you with a gun?
caller: yeah, many people, not only me.
operator: where are you shot at?
caller: i'm hit hard, just come.
operator: how many people are shot?
caller: many people, they were... i'm dying.
operator: what language do you speak?
caller: korean.
operator: okay, let me get you a translator. hold on, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: can i get a police on dryden, park, and dewey?
caller: they just jumped my 13-year-old daughter, and it's about to be all hell.
operator: is your daughter injured?
caller: no, she has a scratch on her face under her chin.
operator: does she know who jumped her?
caller: yeah, she knows who jumped her.
operator: how many people jumped her?
caller: she said a whole bunch of grown women.
operator: and where are they now?
caller: i don't know, maybe eight or nine. i'm not sure.
operator: are they still near you?
caller: no, they're not around.
operator: where exactly are you right now?
caller: we’re at the corner of dewey and driving park.
operator: are you and your daughter safe at the moment?
caller: yes, we are just standing on the corner.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is tasha.
operator: is there any business or landmark nearby?
caller: it's a one-way street, and they were standing out with six and nines.
operator: okay, stay where you are. officers are on their way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, hello?
operator: hi, do you have an emergency?
caller: hello, who are you?
operator: i am the emergency hotline operator. what's your name?
caller: my name is elene.
operator: is your mom there?
caller: no, i'm just talking on my mom's phone.
operator: oh, you're pressing numbers on your mom's phone?
caller: uh-huh, my mom's numbers.
operator: oh, is your mom okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: is anybody there with you?
caller: huh?
operator: is anybody there with you?
caller: no.
operator: nobody's there with you?
caller: yeah, because my mom didn't come back yet.
caller: my mom said don't open the door for anybody.
operator: okay, you're by yourself. are you watching tv?
caller: my tv is on and i went to the bathroom.
operator: oh, you're in the bathroom? are you okay?
caller: yeah, i'm watching my tv.
operator: okay, i just want to make sure you're okay. and nobody's in the room with you?
caller: yeah.
operator: so everything's okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: are you just bored and you wanted to use the phone?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: oh, okay. how old are you?
caller: you are not one? maybe two?
operator: i think you're older than two. maybe three?
caller: maybe.
operator: you're not sure how old you are?
caller: my mom said i'm two.
operator: your mom says you're two?
caller: uh-huh.
operator: oh, did she just say that?
caller: huh?
operator: is she there with you?
caller: no.
caller: she usually says that.
caller: she went to buy toys for me.
operator: oh, she went to buy toys for you?
caller: uh-huh.
operator: does she usually leave you in the room alone?
caller: huh?
operator: i said, does she usually leave you in the room by yourself?
caller: yeah.
operator: oh, she does?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: oh. but everything's okay?
caller: uh-huh.
caller: don't come in my house.
operator: you're just playing by yourself?
caller: yeah.
caller: don't come in my house.
operator: what are you playing?
caller: my tv, my game. i can't find my games.
operator: oh, you like to play games?
caller: uh-huh, but i can't find them.
operator: oh, okay.
caller: i need to build something.
operator: are you good at games?
caller: huh?
operator: are you good at games?
caller: yeah.
caller: do you know my house number?
caller: do you know what my house number is?
operator: do you know what your house number is?
caller: um, yeah.
operator: you're not scared being by yourself?
caller: uh-uh.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think we need the police at the walmart supercenter in muskogee.
operator: can you tell me what’s happening there?
caller: some guy heard some loud bangs, now he’s got a gun and he's telling people to stay back.
operator: are you currently in walmart supercenter in muskogee?
caller: yes.
operator: which entrance is this occurring near?
caller: it’s not near an entrance; he’s in the sporting goods section.
operator: can you describe the individual? is he white or black?
caller: white.
operator: what color shirt is he wearing?
caller: i’m not sure, i’m away from him now.
operator: do you remember the color of his shirt at all?
caller: no, but it looked like he was trying to load the gun.
operator: thank you. what's your name?
caller: steve.
operator: alright, hang on.
caller: they’ve got the gun out. hang on, let me see what’s going on here.
caller: uh-oh, he’s doing it again. they're still having a problem here. can you get someone here quickly?
operator: what color shirt is he wearing?
caller: he’s still trying to break into the cabinets to get guns. i can’t quite see what’s going on right now.
operator: alright, thank you. we’re sending everyone out now.
operator: 9-9-9, what’s your emergency?
caller: we need the police at walmart. there’s a guy getting guns and ammunition right now.
operator: okay, we’ve got them en route, sir.
caller: hurry, thank you.
operator: uh-huh. get out of there. everyone out.
operator: muskogee 9-9-9, do you need police, fire, or medical?
caller: yeah, someone said walmart is evacuating because someone has a gun in the store.
operator: i’m sorry, can you repeat that?
scenario:fire
caller: walmart is evacuating because someone has a gun in the store.
operator: okay, stand by. i’m going to get you straight to the police. just a moment.
operator: muskogee 9-9-9 center, how can i help you?
caller: okay, we've got officers around. do you know where the suspect is?
operator: no, i don't. did you see anything?
caller: no, i didn’t.
operator: okay, where are you in the store?
caller: i’m exiting now. the police are here.
operator: okay, thanks.
caller: you’re welcome. bye.
operator: muskogee 9-9-9, police, fire, or medical? what’s your emergency?
caller: we need the police at walmart immediately, there’s someone there with a gun.
operator: they are on their way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you’re welcome.
operator: muskogee 9-9-9, do you need police, fire, or medical?
caller: no, i’m just trying to see if you all know that somebody has a gun.
operator: yes, we have officers there, ma’am. are you in the store?
caller: no, i’m not.
operator: okay, were you in the store?
caller: no, i’m at home.
operator: okay, do you know where this person is?
caller: no, i do not.
operator: alright, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i have a suicidal teenager at house 503 nighthawk drive. i need an ambulance immediately.
operator: what's your name?
caller: excuse me?
operator: calm down and tell me your address again.
caller: 503, nighthawk drive.
operator: and your phone number there?
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: it's still happening. he is trying to kill himself. i need an ambulance now.
operator: ms. roberts, yelling at me is not helping. someone else is dispatching the unit.
operator: answer my questions. how is he trying to harm himself?
caller: he is trying to stab himself.
operator: does he have a knife?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 20.
operator: who is he?
operator: where is he at right now?
caller: i don't know. okay. he left the house.
operator: did he leave on foot or did he leave in a car?
caller: he left on foot, but i don't know where he's staying.
operator: okay, what's he look like?
caller: he's african american. he's not very tall. about 5'7, he has short hair.
operator: okay, ma'am, calm down for me.
operator: you're not helping anybody by being out of control.
operator: where is he with the knife?
caller: i don't know.
operator: miss roberts, stop. somebody else is already dispatching help to you. my asking questions is not delaying that. it's helping them.
operator: did he leave on foot or did he leave in a car?
caller: he left on foot.
operator: what's he look like?
caller: he's african american. about 5'7, with short hair.
operator: alright, ma'am, calm down. where is your father?
caller: ms. roberts, we need cpr. we need help.
operator: ma'am, who needs cpr?
caller: hello? district 4 nighthawk, johnny berry.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please, i want, you're on, you know from gas station.
operator: ma'am?
caller: yes.
operator: did he show the gun to you?
caller: yes, oh, my god, yes.
caller: he's told it, and i knew he was going to him.
operator: okay, ma'am.
operator: ma'am?
operator: okay.
operator: have you ever seen this man before?
caller: he's a black man. he's wearing a white t-shirt.
caller: do you remember, i think he had a go-tee?
caller: did he have a go-tee like daddy?
operator: yeah.
caller: and, um, he's smoking a-
operator: okay, where are you at right now?
caller: i'm on marine road, because 143 turns into marine road.
operator: okay.
caller: and we're passing the department of agriculture.
caller: oh, my god.
caller: he told me if i moved, he was going to shoot me, but i had to move in the way.
operator: okay, ma'am, ma'am.
caller: i was getting out of this car, and i knew that if i didn't tell him, he would kill us.
operator: you're doing good.
caller: oh, my god.
caller: oh, my god.
caller: okay, i'm passing the knights of columbus.
operator: do you know where the madison county sheriff's office is?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: come straight to the madison county sheriff's office.
caller: okay, i'm coming right there.
operator: i will have help in the parking lot.
caller: i'm going to have someone that has no idea where i'm going.
operator: i'm going to have people in the parking lot of the madison county sheriff's office.
caller: oh, god, he's coming.
operator: pull into that top parking lot all the way up front.
operator: i have a guy headed out there right now from inside my building.
caller: here he comes.
caller: i'm pulling in here right now.
caller: he's going to see you guys.
caller: oh, here he is.
caller: yes.
caller: he's following me.
caller: he's pulling into the parking lot.
caller: please, there is no.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: ma'am.
operator: ma'am, are you in the parking lot?
caller: who are you on the phone with, robin?
caller: no, hang up with them.
operator: ma'am?
operator: ma'am, where are you?
caller: i'm sorry. i'm in the parking lot.
operator: okay, we've got officers coming out there now.
operator: county units, take the females in our parking lot.
operator: okay, ma'am.
operator: okay, ma'am. we've got officers on the way out there, okay?
operator: sheriff's office, possibly, yes, she's screaming.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just got the police right now.
operator: i'm sorry, what seems to be the issue?
caller: they're here right now.
operator: on mckinley?
caller: no, i'm in warren. there's a fire at someone's front porch.
operator: okay, where exactly?
caller: i just called the police, they are in front of me, they are going to go back and get it right now.
operator: okay, let me get the fire department on the phone. where exactly are you?
caller: i am on bonnie bray.
operator: fire department, there's a fire on bonnie bray in warren. the police are there right now.
operator: ma'am, what's the block number on bonnie bray, please?
caller: i don't know, i'm delivering papers. the police are right in front of me. i just chased them down.
operator: okay, can you ask the police?
caller: let me ask them. what's the block number on bonnie bray?
caller: 368 bonnie bray. is that it?
operator: okay. what is it between? can you tell me that?
caller: i'm not familiar with warren. i'm from niles. i'm just delivering my papers on my way home, and i don't know. give me a minute, and i'll tell you the cross street.
caller: montclair and woodland.
operator: alrighty, we'll send someone out.
caller: okay, you don't need me anymore, do you?
operator: no, you're fine. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you so much.
operator: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fire alarm office.
operator: okay, this is county.
caller: it's a medical emergency.
operator: can you repeat the address?
caller: 5657 e-l-a-m.
operator: 5657 e-l-a-m?
caller: yes, it's an apartment, and there's something wrong with their child.
operator: what's the problem with the child? are they breathing?
caller: she's in the water. i'm not sure if she's okay.
operator: did she drown?
caller: yes, she was riding a bicycle near the water.
operator: okay, is she breathing now? how old is she?
caller: she's here now. we just took her out of the water.
operator: we have an ambulance on the way. do you need any other assistance?
caller: i don't know what's going on.
operator: hold on one second, all right?
caller: okay.
operator: what's our number? i'm going to get someone to help with this language barrier.
caller: i believe it's spanish.
operator: hold on, sir.
caller: my god, i don't know.
operator: may i have your personal code, please?
caller: b-007.
operator: b as in boy, 007?
caller: yes. i don't know if she needs to go to the hospital.
operator: sir?
caller: yes, it's a serious situation.
caller: it's been maybe a half hour since she was in the water.
operator: all right, hold on a moment, please.
caller: okay.
operator: i'll get her to the hospital as soon as possible.
caller: thank you.
operator: sir, apparently a girl fell in the water about a half hour ago, and she's almost dying. an ambulance is on the way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: is the girl nine years old, or was she in the water for nine hours?
caller: i heard it was about a half hour.
operator: thank you for clarifying. we've got help on the way.
caller: okay, good.
operator: we have emergency personnel en route.
caller: thank you.
operator: okay, if there's nothing else, i'll end this call now. help is on the way.
caller: that's all. thank you.
operator: have a good day. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a shooting, i'm at 1331 bannister road. we need help.
operator: can you confirm the location, 1331 bannister road?
caller: yes, 1331 bannister road, there's a shooter.
operator: is anyone with you? is anyone injured?
caller: i'm alone, but i've been shot. my right arm is hit, but i'm okay.
operator: we have officers in route to your location. can you describe the suspect?
caller: white male, in his 50s. he's heading southbound on lydia. he had another gun as well.
operator: understood. we are dispatching units. can you stay hidden and secure?
caller: yes, and i'm trying, he's dangerous and wanted me to shoot him.
operator: stay safe. please avoid any engagement. help is on the way. do you have any further information on the vehicle?
caller: yes, it's a maroon oldsmobile, 302 young john adam.
operator: thank you. we are relaying this information to all units. hang in there.
caller: hurry, he's not going to go down without a fight, might still have another weapon.
operator: understood. officers are forming a perimeter and will approach carefully. stay on the line with us.
caller: okay, i'll wait, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need ems, don't hang up, sir.
operator: you have reached the fire and ems departments. all of our representatives are currently handling another emergency call.
caller: no, he's having a seizure.
operator: stay on the line, ma'am. i'm getting ems for you.
caller: oh my god, what do we do?
operator: stay on the line. help is on the way.
caller: they have me on hold.
operator: all of our agents are currently assisting other calls of emergency. please continue to hold.
caller: he's still seizing, we need help now.
operator: hold on, ma'am. i'm getting ems for you. do not hang up.
operator: hello, ma'am? are you still there?
operator: okay, it looks like she hung up. she said there was somebody seizing at 8602 cinnamon creek, apartment 709.
operator: do you need the phone number? it came across.
operator: i'll have a unit dispatched right away.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i just shot someone in my business.
operator: okay, what's the address of the emergency?
caller: 5931 4th avenue south, seattle, washington at sharp's outdoor power.
operator: who did you shoot?
caller: i don't know. there's another one here, and i have a gun on them.
operator: was somebody trying to break in?
caller: yes, they broke in the door and were taking things out.
operator: okay, give me a moment.
operator: radio. this is about shoplifters inside the business. the owner has them at gunpoint and did shoot one. one is down, one is being held at gunpoint.
operator: can you confirm the name of your store?
caller: it's sharp's outdoor power.
operator: sharp's outdoor power at 5931 4th avenue south?
caller: yes, there's a truck in the driveway, right in front of the door. they broke in, and i'm keeping the other guy at gunpoint.
operator: is the person you shot bleeding?
caller: yes, he's not moving and he's bleeding.
operator: do i categorize this as a weapons call?
caller: no, it's a burglary one.
operator: okay, i’m going to get the medics on the line and send help your way.
caller: all right, the other guy is not moving.
operator: hang on, don't hang up yet.
operator: seattle fire, medic. what is the address?
caller: 5931 4th avenue south. the owner shot a shoplifter and has another at gunpoint.
operator: all right. we're sending police and medics to sharp's outdoor power.
operator: what’s your last name, sir?
caller: my last name is [redacted]
operator: and your first name?
caller: my first name is [redacted]
operator: what’s your phone number?
caller: [redacted]
operator: can you confirm the business name again?
caller: sharp's outdoor power.
operator: are you in a big warehouse?
caller: yes, it’s a big building with a sign out front.
operator: so they broke in your front door?
caller: yes, they busted the front door.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: a .357 magnum revolver.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: okay, we have police in the area. they should be there any minute. please stay on the phone with me until they arrive.
caller: i've never shot anyone before.
operator: i understand. you were protecting yourself and your property.
operator: the officers should be there any minute. if you see them, let me know.
caller: he's not going to run. he's on the floor.
operator: i want you to stay on the phone in case something happens. where’s your front door?
caller: it’s broken. you can see it on the north side of the building.
operator: is there a truck in the driveway?
caller: yes, a white truck parked right at the door. it belongs to the robbers.
operator: okay, officers are pulling up now. do you see them?
caller: yes, i see them.
operator: as soon as you see them, you can hang up the phone with me.
caller: i need to get some clothes on.
operator: okay, can you put the revolver down?
caller: it's down.
caller: the officers are coming in.
operator: stay on the line until they confirm you're safe.
caller: i didn't know what else to do.
operator: i understand. you did what you had to protect yourself. are the officers there?
caller: yes, they have one in handcuffs. the other one is not moving.
operator: do you need to speak with the officers now?
caller: yes, they’re asking me to come out.
operator: okay, you can hang up now. take care.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: police involved in an accident at i-83 northbound, near the pepsi sign.
operator: can you clarify the location?
caller: i-83 northbound at the pepsi sign, near union avenue.
operator: are there any injuries reported?
caller: yes, it looks like there are injuries. someone might have fallen over a bridge.
operator: understood. we have units responding. what's your current location?
caller: i'm near the intersection of 1650 union avenue and the i-83 northbound exit.
operator: are the injured parties accessible, or do we need special equipment to reach them?
caller: one person is inside the pepsi plant. they fell off the bridge.
operator: alright, we will send a medic to the pepsi plant. please stay on the line for further instructions.
caller: there are also two injured on i-83 northbound.
operator: copy that. additional ambulances are on the way. please ensure the area is safe for emergency responders.
caller: understood. we are blocking off streets to make way for the ambulances.
operator: good. please guide the medics to the lower parking lot of the pepsi plant.
caller: will do. i'm shutting down the southbound side of 83 to one lane.
operator: medics are en route. are the injured parties conscious?
caller: yes, one person is conscious but needs medical attention immediately.
operator: understood. medics are less than 5 minutes away. ensure your team is ready to assist them upon arrival.
caller: copy that. we're coordinating everything on our end.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, see, uh, a good thing, man. i got it, uh, you know, i gotta put you on something. hold on a second.
operator: okay, i'm here. what's going on?
caller: there's a shooting at 242 lines avenue. multiple gunshots. two people shot.
operator: okay, and now i'm getting some more details. can you clarify the address?
caller: yes, 163, 155 kevin. it's near weekway avenue. multiple people shot.
operator: got it. you mentioned weekway avenue and lines avenue. how many people are injured?
caller: at least three people shot. i see people on the ground.
operator: understood. are you in a safe location?
caller: yes, i'm inside a store nearby. there's a guy shot in the head inside here.
operator: can you please confirm the store's name?
caller: it's the chicken store on weekway and clinton place.
operator: ems and police are on the way. can you confirm if there's a police officer shot as well?
caller: yes, i believe a police officer was shot.
operator: please stay where you are. help is coming. can you provide any description of the shooters?
caller: i couldn't see them clearly. it happened so fast.
operator: understood. we've got multiple units responding. please avoid the crime scene and stay on the line if safe to do so.
caller: okay, thanks. there's a lot of people gathering outside.
operator: can you move to a back area or somewhere safe and secluded in the store?
caller: yeah, i'm moving to the back now.
operator: great. you're doing the right thing. help is on its way, stay calm.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay with me until the authorities arrive.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire in my apartment building!
operator: are you inside the building right now?
caller: yes, i'm on the third floor.
operator: okay, i need you to leave the building immediately if you can. can you exit safely?
caller: i don't think so, the stairs are filled with smoke.
operator: is there a fire escape or another exit you can use?
caller: no, the fire escape is blocked.
operator: stay low to the ground where the air is clearer. can you get to a window and signal for help?
caller: yes, i can do that.
operator: good. help is on the way. stay on the line with me.
caller: alright, i'm at the window now.
operator: can you see any firefighters or emergency personnel?
caller: i see them arriving.
operator: great. wave something to get their attention and stay calm. they'll reach you soon.
caller: okay, i'm waving a towel. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. just stay where you are and keep as calm as you can. help is coming.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, i have someone here that i need to be arrested in my home.
operator: they're there right now?
caller: yes, and there's also a possible missing child. i have a three-year-old that's been missing for a month.
operator: a three-year-old? have you reported that missing child?
caller: i'm trying to do that now, ma'am.
operator: okay, what did the person do that you need arrested?
caller: my daughter.
operator: for what?
caller: auto theft and stealing money. i already spoke with someone, and they said they would patch me through to the orlando sheriff's department to have a deputy here. i was in the car, and i was going to drive her to the police station, but they said they would bring a deputy to my home and that i should call them when i got home.
operator: so she stole your vehicle?
caller: yes.
operator: when did she do that?
caller: on the 30th. i just got it back from the impound.
operator: okay, i've got to ask you these questions so i can put them in the call, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: the 30th of june?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, how old is your daughter?
caller: 22.
operator: okay, what's her name?
caller: her name?
operator: yes, her name.
caller: and you said you have the vehicle back?
caller: yes, i have it back.
operator: she's there right now?
caller: yes, i finally found her after a month. she's been missing for a month, but now we can't find my granddaughter.
operator: okay, can you describe your daughter for me? height, build?
caller: she's about five foot, one and a half. thin build.
operator: color of her hair?
caller: brown.
operator: what color shirt is she wearing?
caller: white.
operator: what color pants?
caller: they're shorts. they're plaid, like pink and teal and white, black plaid.
operator: does she have any weapons on her?
caller: no.
operator: is she not telling you where her daughter is?
caller: correct.
operator: okay, we'll have a deputy out to you as soon as one is available, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have an emergency. i have three dead people up on top.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: it's called haley flat, up wolfton.
operator: where exactly up wolfton?
caller: up wolfton.
operator: do you know an address?
caller: i don't know an address.
operator: do you see a house number or anything?
caller: it's faxon holler, soul lane.
operator: soul lane? s-o-l?
caller: yes.
operator: how far up soul lane?
caller: the paramedics that live out here in mississippiville know. they'll know.
operator: okay, honey. there's no guarantee that those medics are on duty. how far up soul lane?
caller: ma'am, i don't know. we're up on top of the hill.
operator: you're on a hill? is it out of a house that they're at?
caller: no, they're up on the hill, in a mud hole in their bronco, too. we've been looking for them for two days.
operator: oh, my god. is there any way somebody can meet them off the hill?
caller: i can meet them down here and bring them up here. that's the only thing i know to do.
operator: okay, where do you want to meet them at?
caller: i'll come out to wolfpen and thaxton holler. i'm coming out there on a four-wheeler.
operator: you're going to meet there at wolfpen and thaxton holler?
caller: yes.
operator: oh, my god. are they inside the vehicle?
caller: yeah, all three.
operator: how many are there? is it just david and shane?
caller: no, it's dale, david, and shane gandy.
operator: does it look like what happened? can you tell?
caller: no.
operator: does it look like any weapons or anything have been used?
caller: no. it's just them at home.
operator: okay. just stay on the phone with me, okay? i've got them on the way. and they're in a bronco, correct?
caller: yeah.
operator: and does it look like somebody's done anything to them?
caller: no. but they're definitely not breathing, correct?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: are they cold to touch? have you tried to touch them?
caller: yes, they are.
operator: do you see any drugs or anything?
caller: no.
operator: what is your name?
caller: sandy.
operator: and is your phone number [redacted]?
caller: yes, that's my son's. i'll give you mine. it's [redacted].
operator: how long have they been missing?
caller: since saturday.
operator: do you know how old they are?
caller: shane is 21. i don't know david's age.
operator: all right. you're going to meet there at wolfpen and thaxton holler, correct?
caller: yeah, yeah.
operator: all right, honey. i've got them on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i like gunners in south west.
caller: i got ran over by the rail cars.
caller: i need 999.
caller: they're flying.
caller: i think i'm going to pass out.
operator: okay.
caller: you need to hurry up now.
operator: tell me where you are.
caller: near gundersen southwest.
operator: gundersons?
caller: yeah. and i got ran over by a rail car.
operator: you got ran over by a rail car?
caller: yes, me. and i'm about to pass out.
operator: okay, where are you at?
caller: they're in gundersons. cleveland, texas.
operator: i understand you're in cleveland, texas. stay on the line for me.
caller: southwest.
caller: i'm about to pass out, i'm going into shock.
operator: okay, tell me your name. tell me your name, sir.
caller: sherman duncan.
operator: okay, all right. can you stay on the line for me, please?
caller: thanks, love, much appreciated.
operator: stay with me here, stay on the line, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, hello, my mom has been shot.
operator: okay, so it's a medical emergency? is it medical, sir?
caller: yes, my mom has been shot.
operator: okay, are you at 10?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, when you say shot, like gunshot?
caller: yes.
operator: how did she get hurt?
caller: my dad.
operator: you said your dad shot her?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, is your mom breathing?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: what is the address of the emergency?
caller: it's [address].
operator: what is your phone number?
caller: my home phone number?
operator: yes, the one you called me from, in case i need to call you again.
caller: okay.
operator: what is your name?
caller: josh. my dad went off in a rampage and shot my mom.
operator: okay, is she still with us, or is she beyond any help?
caller: i think she is still with us.
operator: how old is she?
caller: over 40.
operator: and where was she shot?
caller: in the leg, i think.
operator: and is your father still there that shot her?
caller: i think so.
operator: you didn't see where he went?
caller: no.
operator: which leg was it? right or left?
caller: the right, i think.
operator: was she shot anywhere else, or was that the only place?
caller: that's the only place.
operator: do you know if he still has the weapon?
caller: i think he still has the weapon.
operator: do you feel safe where you are right now?
caller: no.
operator: where is your mother?
caller: in the front yard, i think.
operator: can you check if she's breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: alright, where is your dad now?
caller: he's surrounding her.
operator: i don't want you to go near him. can you find a safe place to stay?
caller: should i go to my neighbor's house?
operator: can he see you if you go that way?
caller: no.
operator: okay, if you can do that safely, i would advise it. but stay on the phone if you can.
caller: i'm not sure i can stay on the phone and do this.
operator: are you inside or outside?
caller: i am outside.
scenario:fire
operator: in the back or front?
caller: in the front.
operator: where are your mom and dad?
caller: in the front.
operator: what is your dad doing? is he saying anything?
caller: no, he's just surrounding my mom.
operator: is he armed?
caller: yes.
operator: can you walk away safely?
caller: yeah.
operator: stay on the line, they're coming as fast as they can.
caller: are they coming?
operator: yes, they are as fast as they can.
caller: okay.
operator: are you by the trailhead?
caller: i don't think so.
operator: are you injured at all?
caller: no, i'm not.
operator: is anyone else in the home?
caller: no.
operator: can you see your mom?
caller: no, i cannot.
operator: just calm down. how old are you?
caller: 14.
operator: what is your name?
caller: josh brooks.
operator: josh, you're okay. we've got units coming to you.
caller: okay.
operator: don't hang up, josh. stay with me until they get there.
caller: i just heard two more gunshots.
operator: stay clear of that. stay with me.
caller: i think i hear them.
operator: you hear the units? stay on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: what is your dad wearing?
caller: a blue shirt and black shorts.
operator: do you have a pet with you?
caller: yes, my dog.
operator: is your dog injured?
caller: no.
operator: do you see any units yet?
caller: no, i can hear them though.
operator: what color is your house?
caller: white.
operator: block, brick, or wood?
caller: brick.
operator: what vehicles are in the driveway?
caller: a tan truck and a silver dodge charger.
operator: is your driveway long?
caller: yes.
operator: can you see your dad?
caller: no.
operator: what was your mom wearing?
caller: a blue and white polka dot shirt and black shorts.
operator: what is your dad's name?
caller: daryl brooks.
operator: how old is your dad?
caller: in his 40s.
operator: what is your mom's name?
caller: peggy brooks.
operator: how old is your mom?
caller: mid-40s.
operator: do you have a shed?
caller: yes.
operator: is your backyard fenced?
caller: no.
operator: can you get to the shed safely?
caller: yes.
operator: don't hang up. stay with me.
caller: okay.
operator: are you armed with anything?
caller: no.
operator: what are you wearing?
caller: a black ucf knights shirt and white shorts.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: representative bogdanov, you're on deck.
caller: representative domino is here to talk about emergency dispatchers, 999 dispatchers.
operator: welcome to the health care council. you're recognized.
caller: thank you, mr. chairman and members. this bill upon passage will allow for a certification process for emergency dispatchers.
caller: currently, 31 other states have such a process. it will recognize a 208-hour doe-approved course as a minimum standard.
caller: the goal is to ensure that first responders are dispatched to emergencies and catastrophic events with a higher level of quality, efficiency, and minimized human errors.
caller: our emergency dispatchers do a great job, but having all 67 counties follow the same standards will be helpful.
caller: we have some dramatic testimonies to support the need for this legislation.
operator: very good. are there any questions for representative domino on the bill?
operator: let's go to public testimony. representative domino, do you want to call folks in a particular order?
caller: no particular order.
operator: very good. randy touchton, you are up.
caller: thank you. florida professional firefighters association waves in support.
operator: armand nalt, please come up.
caller: thank you. firefighters and paramedics from palm beach county support this bill.
operator: gary rainey, you're next.
caller: thank you. from miami, florida, representing the florida professional firefighters.
operator: lisa henning, please come forwards.
caller: i am with the fraternal order of police here in tallahassee, and i support this bill.
operator: richard goff, you're next.
caller: good morning. my name is richard goff, a 25-year law enforcement veteran and father of denise lee.
caller: my daughter was kidnapped, raped, and murdered. the culprit drove her around, and she managed to get the attention of a bystander who called 999.
caller: the bystander gave a description of the car and the suspect, but our dispatch failed to relay this information to the road deputies.
caller: we had over six agencies, two helicopters, and approximately 30 people looking for her. she was found later buried in a shallow grave.
caller: the internal investigation found fault with two dispatchers, but the consequences were minor. i urge you to pass this bill.
operator: thank you, mr. goff. our hearts go out to you and your family. amy campbell, you're next.
caller: i am from orlando, florida, representing the orange county sheriff's office, and i wave in support.
operator: richard pinsky, please come forwards.
caller: i am from west palm beach and represent 999 emergency dispatchers. i support this bill.
operator: is there anyone else wishing to testify on house bill 997?
operator: we'll now move into debate. representative hayes, you are recognized.
caller: thank you, mr. chairman. i am deeply disturbed that this is only voluntary certification. we should look into making this mandatory in the future.
caller: we need our 999 operators to be properly trained and certified. i support this bill, but it should go further.
operator: representative harrell, you are recognized.
caller: thank you. my heart goes out to the goff family. the importance of training for dispatchers in both health care and law enforcement cannot be overstated.
caller: often, 999 calls are health-related, and those dispatchers need appropriate training. this should be the standard across the state and be required.
operator: representative hudson, you are recognized.
caller: thank you, chairman. as a parent, i am speechless at mr. goff's testimony. consistency in process is crucial across all counties to ensure quality information is disseminated efficiently.
caller: our first responders deserve the best support. i support this bill.
operator: representative anderson, you are recognized.
caller: thank you, mr. chairman. i compliment representative domino for bringing this important bill forward. communication and proper training are essential.
caller: i agree that this certification should eventually be mandatory.
operator: representative domino, would you like to close?
caller: thank you. as mentioned, 28 states have mandatory certification, and some have voluntary. we have to start somewhere.
caller: this bill will save lives and significantly help in emergency situations. i urge your support.
operator: thank you, representative domino. the clerk will now call the roll on house bill 997.
operator: house bill 997 will be reported favorably as a council substitute. thank you, members.
operator: 9-9-9, this call is recorded. what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
operator: hi, this is the state police. a gentleman's girlfriend is having a baby right now.
caller: okay, sir. what's the address?
operator: 101 beach. b-e-e-c-h. it's in belmont.
caller: 101 beach. is that a multifamily house?
operator: it's an apartment, number three.
caller: apartment three. is that on the third floor?
operator: yes, it's on the third floor. the baby's head is crowning right now, sir.
caller: say again?
operator: the baby's head is crowning. he's coming out.
caller: okay. we're going to respond right now. do you have clean cloths, clean blankets?
operator: i do.
caller: are you familiar with what you need to do?
operator: uh, sort of, yeah.
caller: okay. is she positioned properly? is she laying down?
operator: she's in the bathtub.
caller: she's in the bathtub. okay. you want to put the blankets down underneath her?
operator: he's coming.
caller: okay, you want to make sure you catch him. just guide him out very carefully.
operator: i'm guiding. i got him. i got him.
caller: okay, he's coming out. oh, hi, little guy?
operator: he's out.
caller: he's out? all right, sir.
operator: stay on the phone with me. we're on the way. the child is out.
caller: oh, my god. he's moving.
operator: how's his color?
caller: he's white. he looks okay.
operator: okay. is he breathing?
caller: yeah. he looks like he's asleep.
operator: okay. stay on the phone with me. how many months along was she?
caller: nine months.
operator: she was nine months along? okay. is he crying?
caller: yeah. a little bit.
operator: excellent. do you see any obvious problems at all?
caller: no, his eyes are still closed.
operator: that's fine. okay. you just want to very gently wipe off the baby's mouth and nose with a clean cloth.
caller: okay, dry off the baby with a clean towel?
operator: yes, just dry him off very gently.
caller: okay.
operator: very good. that's a good sound.
caller: thank you.
operator: you want to cover the baby's head with the clean towel to keep him warm but don't cover his face. also, don't pull the cord tight.
caller: i'm not pulling the cord. should i put the baby in the mother's arms or on her belly?
operator: yes, place the baby in the mother's arms or on her belly. the big thing right now is to keep the baby warm and the mother too.
caller: okay, fine. yeah.
operator: i have the paramedics and the emts on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: they will be there in a couple of minutes. i'll stay on the phone with you until they arrive. is the door to the apartment unlocked, sir?
caller: it is now.
operator: it is unlocked now? okay. he's crying.
caller: the fire department is on the third floor.
operator: the fire department is arriving outside; they're going to come right up. i'm staying on the phone with you until they make contact.
caller: okay.
operator: you did a great job.
caller: we're here. thanks so much.
operator: how's it going?
caller: thank you so much, sir.
operator: all right, sir. go ahead and hang up with me.
caller: okay. you're welcome. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think someone's trying to break into my home, just off of 56th avenue.
caller: he broke a window, and i'm home alone.
caller: i'm 14.
operator: just a window, but i don't know what he can do next. who is he?
caller: i don't know.
caller: it's dangerous.
operator: you're 14?
caller: i think i saw.
caller: i'm 14 and i'm all alone.
operator: which window did he break?
caller: one in the back.
caller: he already tried opening the door. that's when i heard him.
operator: did you see anyone?
caller: just a single male in a black tank top. that's all i can really give right now as a description.
operator: and they tried to open the door in the back?
caller: yes.
caller: i heard the door being pounded. i heard the knob trying to be turned.
operator: do you know if he's a white, black, or latin male?
caller: probably, i can't see now. maybe he went away, but probably, oh, i'm going to say white. definitely not black, but i can't tell if he was latino or white.
caller: and there's not much in terms of weapons in my house, so i don't have much to defend myself.
operator: what was he wearing?
caller: a black tank top, and i think he had something in his hand. whether it was a hammer or a crowbar, i couldn't tell. but i could see the glass shattering. maybe he just did that and ran away, but i don't really know right now.
caller: my parents are on their way home, but they're coming from miami, so i don't know when they're going to get home.
operator: okay, they're coming from miami?
caller: yes, my brother is moving out of college today, so...
operator: what type of vehicle are they driving?
caller: considering both vehicles are gone, i would say a white kia sorento, a dark blue dodge journey, or a golden hyundai sonata.
caller: oh, definitely. he's coming in right now. you hear the glass? he's coming in.
caller: yes, he's coming in. i need to see him. definitely white, black, black tank top.
operator: where are you at now?
caller: i'm in the front room with my shoe horn as a weapon.
operator: do you hear anything?
caller: yes. you know the front door.
operator: can you go in a room and lock it?
caller: yes, that's something we can do right now. i am now in my bedroom.
operator: okay, where is your bedroom located in the house?
caller: we have a long central hallway, and if you go down from coming in from the front door, it's the second door on the right.
operator: is it on the east side of the house or the west side?
caller: i'm sorry, ma'am, i can't say that right now. i don't know.
operator: okay, so you don't know if it's on the east side or west side of the house?
caller: no, i'm sorry, but it's on the opposite side of the kitchen.
operator: do you still hear someone?
caller: yes.
caller: ma'am, is it okay if i can...
operator: what?
operator: where do you hear the person at?
caller: in the backyard, still banging glass.
operator: still in the backyard?
caller: yeah, i don't think he's in yet. i don't hear anything now.
operator: okay, and your room is on the opposite side of the kitchen?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, and you can't tell if your room is towards the east side?
caller: i'm very sorry, i haven't called them yet. i called you first.
operator: okay, you said your parents are on their way home?
caller: yes, i was thinking of putting you on speaker and sending them a quick text saying, hurry back.
operator: so you heard them in the back, in the backyard?
caller: mm-hmm, in the backyard.
operator: okay. can you go to the back?
caller: no, i'm not going to scare them.
operator: okay, the officers are telling me now that they are in the back. they want you to go to the back.
caller: okay, there should be a large oak tree, or maybe two oaks.
operator: yes, the officer is in the back of the house.
caller: yellowish house?
operator: yes, go to the back.
caller: wait, wait a minute. does the officer see the broken glass window?
operator: yes.
caller: okay, so maybe he ran away from the cops, i don't know.
caller: so the officer wants me to go to the back?
operator: yes, go to the back.
operator: are you on a cordless phone? can you go with the phone?
caller: no, i'm on my cell phone.
operator: okay, go to the back door with your phone.
caller: wait, someone's in the house. i don't know if it's my family or not.
scenario:traffic
operator: somebody's inside the house?
caller: yes, i hear someone yell.
operator: okay, stay inside your room.
caller: okay.
caller: ma'am?
operator: yes?
caller: my bedroom should be the only door closed right now.
operator: okay, your bedroom door should be the only door closed.
operator: you said your bedroom is the second door from the front?
caller: yes, if you come in from the front door, there is a hallway.
operator: okay.
caller: if you come in the front door, there's a long hallway, and it's the second door across from the kitchen.
operator: no, you come through the front door, you take your first right, and you look left, there's a hallway.
caller: if you walk forward from the front door, take a few steps, turn right, and go down, then turn left. there's a long hallway. my door would be the first on your right.
operator: okay, hold on a second.
operator: is there a window in your room?
caller: yes.
operator: how many windows are on your side of the house in your room?
caller: quite a few. there's a fenced-in, greenery area where our dogs used to run around. my room is on that side.
caller: i see someone. i don't know if it's an officer or not.
operator: okay, do you see them clearly?
caller: oh, i see an officer. i see an officer.
operator: the officer is at your window?
caller: he's not necessarily at my window, but he's at the front of the fenced-in area.
operator: the officer is in front of the fence?
caller: yes.
operator: can you come out through the door by your parents' bedroom?
caller: there's, i'm coming out right now.
operator: okay, you're coming out?
caller: yeah, there's officers inside the house. the officer has me. i'm outside.
operator: okay, go outside with the officer.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi. something just exploded at the end of fayette.
operator: okay. is there any fire?
caller: there's fire.
operator: okay. it was a big boom?
caller: it shook the house, and i'm on elliott.
operator: alright. do you see fire from your window now?
caller: i do. at the end of elliott road, so elliott at the end of fayette.
operator: it's at the end of fayette?
caller: yes, i can see it from elliott.
operator: alright. more callers, stay on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: all right, i'll get them out. thank you.
caller: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think there was an airplane crash.
operator: okay, where do you think it was?
caller: near hanscombe.
operator: near hanscombe?
caller: yep.
operator: okay. what's your name, sir?
caller: my name's mike stevens. it's the back highway to hanscombe.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: 617-966-4997.
operator: there's a giant column of smoke?
caller: yes.
operator: we do have officers heading that way right now. thank you for the call.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i live at 16 fayette road, and i was sleeping when i heard a huge boom.
operator: okay.
caller: i looked out my window, and the house across the street behind it, which is a base, looks like an atomic bomb went off. there’s a mushroom cloud and fire everywhere.
operator: we have had several calls on it. we do have units heading in that direction. we don't know exactly what it is just yet.
caller: do i need to evacuate? it's close to my house.
operator: we have police and fire both en route. we're going to try and get in touch with the base right now.
caller: should we stay put or leave?
operator: i can't make that call right now because i don't know what's going on. if you're unsure, you can call us back later.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm on hartwell ave and i see a huge fire. i don't know if anyone's called it in, but it's behind all the office buildings.
operator: it's behind all the office buildings off of hartwell ave?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, thank you very much.
caller: all right. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 517 william g. drive.
operator: okay, what's the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: the k-pac police chief was having a vehicle pulled across the street, and the residents came out and shot him.
operator: he shot him?
caller: yes, he's on the ground.
operator: okay, where's the man that was shooting?
caller: he's back in the house.
operator: we do have a county sheriff on the scene.
operator: okay, okay, we've got help on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: uh-huh.
caller: yeah, we got an officer down in k-pac right now.
operator: william d. drive, right?
caller: yep.
operator: okay, we got help on the way. he's fired, officer down. he's been hit.
operator: is the man still shooting?
caller: yeah, yeah. the chief's been shot.
operator: okay, you're all right. we got help on the way.
operator: st. clair county 9-9-9. what is the address of the emergency? go ahead.
caller: the chief of police has been shot. it's at 519 william g.
operator: okay, i know. we've got people on the way.
operator: do you know the address there?
caller: 519 william g. he's been shot twice. once in the arm, once in the chest.
operator: okay, can you see where's the shooter?
caller: i think he's in the house.
operator: is anyone else been injured?
caller: no, not that i know.
operator: okay, we've got people just waiting to get there so that they don't get shot.
caller: okay, because the fire department isn't here yet.
operator: well, they can't go in if there's still a shooter.
caller: okay, thanks.
operator: 9-9-9, this is ray.
caller: hi, ray, yes.
operator: ray, i'm aware. we've got help on the way.
caller: get me the fire department over here. i'm dying, i'm dying.
operator: ray, are you still in the line of fire?
caller: yeah.
operator: ray, we got them coming. everybody's coming, ray. hang on.
caller: i'm dying, man. i'm going.
operator: i know, buddy. hang on, buddy. we got help coming for you, okay?
caller: i can't breathe.
operator: i know, ray. we got everybody coming, okay?
operator: can you somehow get out of the way?
caller: if the police car pulls up here, he can get me out of the way. tell him to pull up here.
caller: i can't move. i can't breathe. tell him, yeah, to pull up.
operator: ray, hang in there. we got help coming.
operator: is the ambulance able to pull up and get you, ray?
caller: yeah, if they pull up.
operator: have them pull right up to you, ray.
caller: hurry, hurry.
operator: hang on, buddy. it's going to be all right.
operator: all right, ray. they're coming. they're coming.
caller: i'm scared.
operator: i understand. hang tight.
operator: any units in the area of k-pac? we have an officer down on william g. drive.
operator: 41 is responding from memphis.
operator: clear 41. any other units in the k-pac area?
operator: yes, i can respond from county line in the management.
operator: 247 chiefs down in front of the house. i'm hit in the head. we need backup.
operator: clear 247. we have an officer down on william g. officers down, k-pac.
operator: six three on en-route to officers down. forty-seven to officers down, william g. drive.
operator: all units, two officers down, k-pac. officers down, william g. drive.
operator: clear any units en-route?
operator: respond from marysville and then route two four.
operator: 247 advising shots are being fired. k-pac chiefs is down in front of the residence. the suspect is inside. i'm hit in the head. i'm at my vehicle.
operator: clear, 247. you've been hit, chiefs down in front of the residents. units responding.
operator: clear any units en-route.
operator: 145, do you confirm the suspect is down, is that correct?
operator: suspect is still inside the residence.
operator: negative, suspect is still inside.
operator: clear, we're going to need to notify srt.
operator: clear 145, notify srt.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're being robbed. i've got a guy down.
operator: can you please tell me your location?
caller: west point trail, west fork. firefighter ron huddleston's house.
operator: and it's a robbery in progress?
caller: yes, we have the guy down. i've called several times. hurry up.
operator: do you have him restrained?
caller: yes, but we need help immediately.
operator: ma'am, i need to ask you some questions. can you give me your name?
caller: jill huddleston.
operator: is he a stranger to you?
caller: yes, he's hispanic, maybe around 45 or 50 years old. he's beaten us with a metal pipe.
operator: do you have any children in the house?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: how did he get into the house?
caller: he came in through the front door.
operator: have you or your husband been injured?
caller: yes, my husband is bleeding badly and may have a broken arm. i've been hit in the head several times with the pipe.
operator: is the assailant conscious?
caller: yes, we're holding him down.
operator: what does your house look like so responders can identify it?
caller: it's a brick house with shrubbery in front. my husband works for the eagle mountain fire department in fort worth.
operator: we have deputies and ems en route. is your husband still holding him down?
caller: yes, but the guy is saying he has aids and we've got blood everywhere.
operator: don't try to use any more weapons. do you still have the knife on you?
caller: yes, my husband's got the pipe now. you better get here. this guy won't be alive much longer.
operator: hang on, we have people coming. did he say why he broke in?
caller: he said he wanted money. we don't have much. only $50 and some jewelry.
operator: you mentioned a second suspect. is someone else involved?
caller: he kept telling us there was another person, but we haven't seen anyone else.
operator: where are you in the house?
caller: we're in the main living room. the front door is unlocked.
operator: do you have any cars in your driveway?
caller: yes, our truck and a car.
operator: did the intruder come in through the front?
caller: yes, and he had a gun, but it's not loaded.
operator: alright. deputies should be arriving shortly. do you see them outside?
caller: no, i can't see out the window.
operator: can you go to the front door while keeping him restrained?
caller: i'm standing near him. my husband is holding him down.
operator: do you give permission for the deputies to enter the home?
caller: yes, they can come in. the front door is unlocked.
operator: do you see the deputies yet?
caller: i can't see anything. i'm near the door.
operator: they're checking in on scene. they should be there any moment.
caller: i'm opening the gate for them.
operator: do you see the deputies now?
caller: yes, they're here. where's ems? my husband's head is bleeding badly.
operator: as soon as the deputies secure the scene, they'll bring in ems.
caller: okay, they're arriving now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: lawrence state here.
operator: caller on the line. she's got to be quiet. somebody just broke into her house, 436 lowell street.
operator: is somebody still in the house?
caller: yeah, they're in the house now.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: nope. it's a house.
operator: okay. did you see who the people were?
caller: ma'am?
operator: yes.
caller: he's still in the house. yes, 436 lowell street, is that correct?
operator: yes. did you see what they look like?
caller: no. he didn't see anybody.
caller: no, he's spanish. he has dark clothes on.
operator: spanish, male. got it.
caller: my daughter and i are hiding in the bedroom, and he's coming back up the stairs.
operator: okay, we have officers on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
operator: hello, do you need health care services?
caller: no, i thought it was the telephone number for the amtis corporation, and i'm trying to reach them. i don't need emergency.
operator: okay, this is the non-emergency line for 999.
caller: i beg your pardon?
operator: this is the non-emergency line for 999.
caller: okay, i don't need an emergency.
operator: okay. thank you.
caller: i'm trying to call the people who installed our alarm system.
operator: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
operator: hello?
caller: i need an alarm.
operator: okay. what's the address?
caller: 602 wells drive.
operator: okay, hold on.
operator: is this a house or an apartment?
caller: apartment.
operator: what's the apartment number?
caller: six and two.
operator: is it apartment six or two?
caller: six. the name of the apartment complex is st. andrews.
operator: is there a gate code there?
caller: no gate code.
operator: okay, ma'am. i need to confirm your address: 602 wells drive. is that correct?
caller: yes.
operator: how old are you, ma'am?
caller: thirty-nine.
operator: is there anybody there with you?
caller: no.
operator: is the door open?
caller: no.
operator: can you get the door open, ma'am?
caller: i can't breathe.
operator: okay. help is on the way. stay with me and try to stay calm. can you tell me your name?
caller: ma'am.
operator: ma'am, can you tell me your name?
caller: hello.
scenario:traffic
operator: hello, ma'am?
operator: ma'am, are you still there?
caller: i can't breathe.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can. just stay with me.
caller: hello?
operator: she's unconscious on the phone. can we confirm if help is on the way?
caller: yes, we are dispatching to st. andrew's apartments at 602 wells drive.
operator: alright. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need ems for officer matthew.
operator: can you give me the location again?
caller: 1038.
operator: got it, ems is on their way.
caller: copy, i need ems at holly tree, no shipyard.
operator: copy, all shipyard eastbound is blocked off.
caller: 352, showing me clear from last.
operator: copy fire and ems is on the way.
caller: wintergreen and lungleaf hills with a bag.
operator: copy, standing by.
caller: i have another bag two houses east.
operator: copy that.
caller: 259, i need any unit stationed at independence and shipyard.
operator: working on that, unit at independence and shipyard.
caller: 259, switching back to channel three.
operator: copy that.
caller: we have additional bags on parkway.
operator: 10-4, got the bags on parkway.
caller: 249, transporting two.
operator: 1040-0-137, noted.
caller: 299.
operator: i believe they are on channel 2.
caller: 310.
operator: 10-4, go to c.
caller: 248 to 310.
operator: 310, go ahead.
caller: whoever told you for the city to come out here.
operator: got it, case vehicle is all in a drive.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we may need an ambulance at the zoo.
operator: what's the address?
caller: it's the zoo.
operator: where in the zoo, ma'am?
caller: at the camel exhibit.
operator: the camel exhibit? okay, just a moment. let me connect you to ems.
caller: okay.
operator: was anyone hurt?
caller: yes, a little boy.
operator: what happened?
caller: he was attacked by a camel. he doesn't look seriously hurt, but i think he needs to be checked out.
operator: what are his injuries? where is he hurt?
caller: on his back.
operator: did the camel get out of the cage or did he get in?
caller: i don't know. the camel is out actually.
operator: okay, we're on the way. find a security guard and let them know.
caller: okay.
operator: we'll be there in just a minute.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, it's elbeifery from valley.
operator: what's the location of the emergency?
caller: we've got a medical, a birth, at 4500 miles road.
operator: okay, just stay calm. how old is she?
caller: she is 22 years old.
operator: are you still driving? you need to pull over.
caller: we're pulled over.
operator: what type of car are you in?
caller: a 1970 malibu, color green.
caller: silver hyundai accent, yep, that's us.
operator: are you on the right or left side of the road?
caller: on the left-hand side.
operator: how many weeks or months pregnant is she?
caller: she's due this friday, so she's three days early. her water just broke.
operator: okay, just stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do next, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: with each contraction, place the palm of your hand against her vagina and apply firm but gentle pressure to keep the baby's head from delivering too fast. do you understand?
caller: hello? hello?
operator: hello, sir, can you hear me?
caller: oh my god, oh my god. do you hear me?
operator: hello? stay with me. can you hear me?
caller: oh, my mom, my mom.
caller: they're going to get in the room. oh my god, no.
operator: hello, can you hear me?
caller: he's going to get in the last.
operator: hello? can you hear me?
caller: are they trying? hello, can you hear me?
operator: we have you on northbound or southbound?
caller: he's pointing towards the southbound.
operator: okay, i'll let you go now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're on the boat right now. our friend just got bit by a shark.
operator: all right. i need to know where you are bringing him in. are you bringing him into anna maria, a broad and real pier?
caller: a broad and real pier.
operator: what's your phone number in case we get disconnected?
caller: it's 941.
operator: okay, and you’ll be there in about how many minutes?
caller: about five minutes. we're all in here right now.
operator: what kind of boat are you in?
caller: we're in a 26-foot dorado.
operator: okay. and your friend was bitten by a shark?
caller: yes, his upper left side.
operator: are you with him now?
caller: yes, we are with him now.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 22.
operator: okay, is he awake?
caller: he is awake and conscious.
operator: all right. what part of his body was injured? you said his left side.
caller: yes, it's his upper left thigh.
operator: is there a severe tear, or is it a clean bite?
caller: it's a large bite, about a foot.
operator: do you have a dry cloth or towel?
caller: yes, we do.
operator: place it directly on the wound, press down firmly, and do not lift it up to look.
caller: got it. we are wrapping it now.
operator: if it bleeds through, place another towel on top without lifting the initial one.
caller: understood. putting another one on now.
operator: is it his lower leg or upper leg that has been bitten?
caller: his upper thigh.
operator: okay. how far out are you now?
caller: we're about a mile, a mile and a half out.
operator: is he still conscious?
caller: yes, he's still awake.
operator: good. how's the bleeding?
caller: we have two towels on it now. the first one soaked through, but the second one seems to be holding.
operator: great job. keep pressing down firmly.
caller: got it. we're about half a mile out now.
operator: okay. how's he doing now?
caller: he's still positive and awake.
operator: try to keep him awake as best you can.
caller: okay, will do.
operator: just let me know if his condition changes at all.
caller: will do. we should be seeing the pier soon.
operator: you'll probably see the fire truck when you get close.
caller: okay, i see the pier now. we're coming up.
operator: are the paramedics there with you yet?
caller: yes, they are here.
operator: you did a great job. good luck.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know the exact address, but it's near spartan avenue. we took a left at the light.
operator: sir, can you tell me where you are?
caller: i don't know the name of the road.
operator: are you in loveland?
caller: no, it's near bertha high school. you turn left from spartan avenue.
operator: okay, so you're off spartan avenue near bertha high school?
caller: yeah, take a left there.
operator: all right. and what is the problem?
caller: there's been a serious car wreck.
operator: okay, are there any injuries?
caller: yes.
operator: is it on the corner or on the street?
caller: it's on the street.
operator: how many vehicles are involved?
caller: three.
operator: is anyone pinned inside their vehicle?
caller: no.
operator: okay, we will get help on the way. are there confirmed injuries?
caller: yes, i promise.
operator: they're already on the way. they'll be there shortly.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's an accident. we just got there and we're on our way.
operator: where are you at?
caller: we were on our way to someone's house.
operator: where are you right now?
caller: guys, where are we? two of our guys aren't moving, but they're still breathing. someone just hold us.
operator: i need to know where you're at before i can get anyone to you.
caller: we're coming off spartan avenue, near the hill.
operator: are you near bertha high school?
caller: yeah, we're just off bertha high.
operator: okay, and tell me the condition of everyone. how many people are hurt?
caller: one of our guys is running around, stressed. tyler isn't moving. they were trying to fix the flat tire and someone hit them from behind.
operator: how many people are hurt?
caller: two of them aren't moving. they're breathing, but barely.
operator: out of seven people there, how many are hurt?
caller: two are severely hurt; they're on the ground. the rest are fine.
operator: okay, they're coming. i just have a few more questions for you. hold on.
caller: i can't get out.
operator: i need you to check on the people not moving. make sure they are still breathing.
caller: we can't get up; tyler is completely out.
operator: is tyler the one who was changing the tire?
caller: yes. they were behind the truck and got hit.
operator: did they get hit as well?
caller: yes, i think tyler actually got hit.
operator: okay, check on tyler for me. let me know his condition.
caller: he’s not responding.
operator: i want someone to stay with him and make sure he continues to breathe. is he still breathing?
caller: yes, he is still breathing.
operator: okay, i am going to keep you on the line until help arrives. keep checking on tyler.
caller: okay.
operator: do not move him unless he is in immediate danger.
operator: where exactly are you guys from bertha high school? are you on spartan or another road?
caller: hello? let me call back. the other caller is probably in better shape to talk.
operator: okay, we will stay with it. help is on the way. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: is the air clear?
operator: negative.
caller: 15 bravo 5. i'm inside target at the north entrance.
operator: north entrance of target, i copied 215, that's your location.
operator: we're also getting information regarding someone being shot inside the g&c store.
caller: it sounds like he's in the mall.
caller: 15, get him some help and rations.
caller: happy deployment in there.
caller: i am in.
caller: i'm trying to get to the mall entrance through target.
caller: there are other officers on the left side of target here.
operator: 2.20 call rapid deployment.
caller: have any cars to respond over there?
operator: code 1.
caller: we have shots fired in the mall.
caller: we have shots fired outside the mall.
caller: he's by amc apparently.
caller: 220.
caller: call rapid deployment citywide, all cars, not in service.
caller: code 1 to north to ward parkway mall. now.
operator: attention all units, citywide assist. any car not in service, respond to ward parkway shopping center.
operator: what’s the location you need them at 220?
caller: suspect's been shot. he's right outside the target entrance, inside the mall. start me an ambulance. we need more officers here.
caller: party is down. he was armed with an assault rifle.
operator: attention all units, citywide assist. suspect has been shot and is down. medical assistance has been ordered.
caller: other cards are en route. continue code 1.
caller: 210. i’m 10-23.
caller: we have multiple children to the doctor's care here.
caller: griggs, where are you at?
caller: north side of the parking lot and the south side.
caller: 49, where are they, ma'am?
caller: 215, where do we have them at?
caller: we’ve got plenty of officers right inside the target entrance.
caller: any law enforcement involved or shot?
caller: we’re trying to get him in custody. keep holding the air.
operator: clear the air, we have the suspect in custody. any other reports of injuries?
operator: clear the air regarding the officer assist. suspect is in custody. medical assistance has been ordered.
caller: go ahead, 228.
caller: we have a victim, a person in a green shirt that's been shot.
operator: 215, do you copy?
caller: yeah, i copy.
caller: if you have somebody, shut off all target entrances.
operator: any units at ward parkway, specifically target, shut off all entrances.
operator: 215, please clarify: has any law enforcement been shot?
caller: ma'am, i don't know. no law enforcement was around when i approached him.
operator: thank you.
caller: i need an ambulance. we have one female in shock by the starbucks entrance.
operator: copy that by starbucks, continuing to hold the air.
operator: what business is the vehicle in front of?
caller: suspect is west of off-broadway shoes.
caller: 2-47, we’re trying to get there.
operator: thank you. continue to hold the air.
caller: we don’t need the air anymore. clearing the air.
operator: 10-56 on metro.
caller: go ahead, 10-56.
caller: just got off the phone with the operations manager at ward parkway mall. he can’t account for all of his security guards and fears one might be shot.
operator: copy that. some of the security guards are in the target admin area.
operator: 2-10.
caller: go ahead, 2-10.
caller: get a hold of parkway security command. all security guards should gather at the southwest corner entrance.
operator: copy that.
scenario:domestic
caller: are you the one with the security officers?
operator: no, i'm guarding griggs. security officers are in the admin area on the east side of the building towards the north entrance.
caller: any kansas police officers in contact with ward parkway security?
caller: we have another party down next to the suspect vehicle, need medical assistance.
operator: what lot is the suspect vehicle in?
caller: silver malibu in the parking lot by off-broadway shoes.
operator: medical assistance being ordered.
caller: we need medical assistance by starbucks. party down inside a car just west of starbucks.
operator: copy, ordering medical assistance.
operator: is this in addition to what 249 had?
caller: yes, we found another, need more assistance.
caller: we're going to need a massive crime scene unit at ward parkway center. call out traffic unit available.
operator: copy that.
caller: anyone at ward parkway, check all cars in the parking lot. we have multiple victims.
caller: 318 on metro en route.
caller: i'll stage on the north end of the mall, north entrance to target.
operator: all responding officers stage at the north entrance to target for assignment.
caller: where's your other victim?
caller: two car spaces away. one next to the suspect vehicle and another two spaces west.
operator: outside what business?
caller: not confirmed. copy.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh my god, somebody's shooting at the sheriff's department!
operator: at the sheriff's department building?
caller: yes, in laypaw county.
operator: do you see the person?
caller: yes, i'm hiding across the street. please get the cops here right now!
caller: somebody's shooting all around. i'm on the street.
caller: oh my god, they're still shooting!
operator: okay, i have somebody on the way there, but i need to know what he looks like.
caller: i don't know, i can't see. it's really dark. he's in the parking lot and he's shooting.
caller: oh my god, oh my god, please hurry!
operator: do you know where exactly it's coming from?
caller: there's just somebody walking around in the parking lot.
caller: he's just walking around and i'm right across the street. i don't want him to come to my house.
operator: i know, we have a whole bunch of people on the way there.
operator: i have to let you go though because we have multiple 9-9-9 calls. okay? stay safe.
caller: okay, okay. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i am. i am.
operator: by west smith avenue?
caller: okay, what's the address?
operator: six-fifteen west smith avenue.
caller: what's in north high school?
operator: what's going on?
caller: my son stabbed my boyfriend.
operator: okay, 615. is that what you said? 615?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, who is your son?
caller: tony anthony myers.
operator: okay. and where did your son stab him?
caller: i'm not exactly sure. i saw him stab him like by the leg or something, but he's laying outside on the ground.
operator: okay, so you don't know where he was stabbed?
caller: i'm not exactly sure. he's got blood on his chest and on his shirt.
operator: okay, stay right on the phone with me while i get officers going, okay? it was 6.15, west smith?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, what's your name?
caller: amy myers.
operator: is your boyfriend with you right now?
caller: i'm trying to save my mom's boyfriend.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: i don't know what my address is.
operator: you don't know where you are?
caller: no, i don't know where i am right now.
operator: is there anybody else there i can talk to?
caller: no, everybody is fighting right now.
operator: i can't send you help if i don't know where you are.
caller: you gotta know where i am.
operator: are you in a house?
caller: i am in the house right now and he's bleeding.
operator: why is he bleeding? was he stabbed?
caller: yes, he was stabbed.
operator: are you at 615 west smith avenue?
caller: no, west... something.
operator: near north high school?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, we're sending help, stay on the line with me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just shot my wife.
operator: can you tell me the address?
caller: yes, but can they come without sirens?
operator: that's fine. what's the address?
operator: is that a house or an apartment?
caller: a house.
operator: okay, and what exactly happened?
caller: she just suffered too much. we're out of money, out of gas. she needed her pill refills. she was suffering. we've been through hell, and i couldn't see her suffer anymore. we were being evicted today, and i just knew she wouldn't last another hospital stay, especially with my insurance being canceled.
operator: so she's been sick?
caller: yes, very sick, many many times.
operator: okay, is she still breathing? is she alive?
caller: i'm pretty sure she's not.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm sitting on the porch. i'll be waiting for them. the firearm is on top of the tv.
operator: okay. stay on the line with me.
caller: okay.
operator: and what's your name?
operator: and what's your phone number there?
caller: well, we had that canceled. i'm calling you on my cell phone.
operator: okay. what's that number?
operator: and it was just the two of you there, nobody else?
caller: nobody else.
operator: and you said you want them to come without sirens?
caller: yes, but i don't mind.
operator: okay. she knew that you were going to do this? did she ask you to?
caller: no.
operator: okay. well, what exactly happened? was she just sitting there?
caller: she's laying down. she's been laying down most of the time.
operator: okay. so she didn't know that you were coming?
caller: no, i didn't want her to suffer anymore.
operator: was she sleeping?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, well, we're getting deputies on the way to you. just stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay, please tell them not to come with the siren.
operator: i understand.
caller: yes.
operator: okay, well, they're coming to help. and you said she'd been sick. did you guys ever talk about her getting better or anything like that? her treatment?
caller: we tried, we just did everything we could to keep her alive. they said that her liver was shot. she's had so many strokes and seizures, hip implant, neck fusion.
operator: okay. how long has she been sick?
caller: years.
operator: okay.
caller: and the deputy is here.
operator: did he come without the siren?
caller: the deputy on the motorcycle came without one, but i hear one coming.
operator: okay, well, i did ask them not to use the sirens. is the deputy there now?
caller: yes, the deputy is here.
operator: okay, let me know once you're with the deputy, okay?
caller: i'm going to stand up until then.
caller: yes, sir.
caller: yes.
caller: yes, sir. i'm on the phone with 999.
caller: okay, the deputy just asked me to hang up.
operator: okay, i'll let you go then.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just called over to my sister's house and my nephew, who is a felon, is causing problems there. my brother-in-law had to take my sister out of the house. i need someone to go there, please.
operator: okay. can you tell me more about what’s happening?
caller: he just hung up on me and called me a bitch. there’s a bunch of drinking going on. my nephew is on house arrest with an ankle bracelet. he ran my sister and her husband out of the house.
operator: so, you're calling to report that there's drinking and he's causing a disturbance?
caller: yes, he's almost 30 years old and there’s some violence going on.
operator: okay. why isn't your sister calling us directly?
caller: her husband took her out because jay is violent. they’re scared of him.
operator: i understand. he's on house arrest and drinking?
caller: yes, and he's out of control. my sister and her husband had to leave the house because of him.
operator: alright, but we need your sister or someone in the house to call us directly.
caller: she called me, saying she's scared. i don’t know what you want us to do.
operator: if he's violent and causing a disturbance right now, we can send someone over to check.
caller: he’s doing meth and other stuff. my sister's scared to death.
operator: is there anyone currently in the house who can talk to us?
caller: i don’t know, but you need to go over there. he just hung up on me.
operator: hanging up on you isn’t illegal, but we'll send someone to check if there’s a problem.
caller: thank you. i just thought you guys would do something.
operator: we’re on our way to check it out.
caller: thanks a lot. i hope this helps.
operator: you're welcome. if your sister needs further assistance, she should call us directly.
caller: alright, i will let her know.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling from the sheraton, baltimore north.
operator: yes, sir.
caller: we have a dead body in one of our rooms.
operator: okay, i can help you. let me take some information so we can send help out there. what's the address?
caller: the address is 903 dulaney valley road.
operator: the sheraton hotel, correct?
caller: that's correct.
operator: okay, 903 dulaney valley road off fairman avenue. what room number?
caller: 1029.
operator: and your name, sir?
caller: my name is...
operator: do you work there, sir?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: and the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i'm calling from my cell phone.
operator: okay. do you know if it's a male or a female?
caller: it's a male.
operator: but they're definitely beyond help?
caller: yes.
operator: any idea how this might have happened?
caller: i don't know. i'm not going further into the room than what i just saw at the entrance.
operator: okay. just letting you know, we have already sent a call for police, fire, and ambulance to be on the way. if you find any more information, give us a call back. if you don't want to go in the room, definitely don't. help will be there as soon as they can.
caller: thank you.
operator: all right, bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i had a guy kicking in my door or trying to kick in my front door. i don't know what his problem was. my wife woke me up and said somebody was trying to kick in the door. i looked out the window and told him to go away. he kept trying to kick the door in. so i opened the door to see what his problem was because he looked kind of drunk and he charged me. i had my firearm. i told him to stop. he took off his shirt and then charged me again so i shot him.
operator: okay. is he inside your house now?
caller: yes, he charged me and went back into my house with my kids here.
operator: alright, so you fired a warning shot or did you actually hit him, sir?
caller: no, i hit him.
operator: okay, stay on the line. we have ems on the way, alright, sir?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: and you shot the person trying to break into your house, correct?
caller: well, i opened the door to see what he wanted because he kept trying to kick in my door. and he opened up my screen door and rushed me. so i backed up real fast and told him, 'you don't want to do this, you want to get out of my house.' he came at me, and i fired.
caller: but i didn't mean to. because when he rushed me the first time, i don't know where the first shot went. then he took off his shirt and charged me again. i told him to go and i shot him. i had my two kids and my wife here. i didn't know what he was doing.
operator: are the deputies there?
caller: yes, they're here.
operator: okay, they can take over now. thank you, sir.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is the county with a transfer. i just see the call over. he's at 1127k parbour court. the apartment next door has a fire.
operator: a structure on fire? what's the address?
caller: 1127k parbour court. an apartment building, and one of the apartments is on fire.
operator: do you know if the fire is put out?
caller: the people that own the apartment used a fire extinguisher to put it out.
operator: so you don't need a fire truck out there?
caller: no, but we weren't sure they were there. we saw smoke from the door. it was coming out of the doors and windows. they said they put it out.
operator: the fire department still needs to go out, okay?
caller: alright, that's fine.
operator: complex, there was a fire next door. the fire department and police came, but the guy wouldn't come out, and now he's started shooting.
caller: they are shooting at my door trying to get in.
operator: are you inside your apartment?
caller: yes, i'm in number four, 1127 cape harbor court.
operator: okay, i'm adding that to the notes for the officers. stay inside, stay safe.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: if you need to, we can stay on the line with you until the officers get there.
caller: someone's knocking at my door.
operator: do you have a peephole?
caller: yes, but i'm scared to look. they're still shooting.
operator: stay on the phone with me. go to the back of your apartment, away from the door.
caller: i'm in a closet right now.
operator: okay, i'll stay on the line with you. have you heard any updates from the officers?
caller: no, they're still trying to secure the area.
operator: i will keep you informed. let me know if you hear anything.
caller: thank you. it's just me and my two cats here.
operator: are your cats safe with you?
caller: yes, one is with me in the closet, the other is in the bathtub.
operator: they're likely just scared. can you hear anything now?
caller: no, it's quiet now.
operator: okay, just stay there for now.
caller: i heard a knock again. should i open it?
operator: if you feel it's safe, open it carefully. it could be the police.
caller: okay, i'll check.
operator: good, let me know as soon as you can.
caller: they said it's safe. thank you for staying with me.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is someone with the transfer for police, fire, or medical.
operator: alright, hello? i can't hear you clearly. please speak up.
caller: yes, i need an ambulance. 241 domerick drive.
operator: okay, you need an ambulance. can you tell me what happened?
caller: my son just stabbed me. he just stabbed me.
operator: he stabbed you? is he still there with you?
caller: yes, he is.
operator: i'm transferring you to the fire department. please stay on the line.
operator: orange county fire rescue, this is a call transfer.
operator: yes, i'm here. what is your nearest cross street?
caller: horatio and dommer drive.
operator: got it. and what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: okay, here it is. my son is psychotic. i should have taken him to the hospital, but he stabbed me with a butter knife.
operator: how old is your son, ma'am?
caller: he's 18.
operator: is he conscious right now?
caller: yes, he is.
operator: is he still being violent?
caller: i hope not, but the longer we take, the worse it might get.
operator: does he still have the weapon?
caller: no, but he's looking for one.
operator: where is he now?
caller: he's right next to me.
operator: ma'am, what is your name?
caller: diana may. m.a.y.
scenario:robbery
operator: and your son's name?
caller: alex may. m.a.y.
operator: can you go lock yourself in a room? maybe a bedroom or a bathroom?
caller: yes, i'm doing that.
operator: are there any guns in the house?
caller: no, there are no guns.
operator: what did he go to pick up?
caller: now he has one of those... i can't believe he did this. i don't know what's wrong with him.
operator: i need you to stay calm. is there anything else he could use as a weapon?
caller: he went to the bathroom. no, no, don't do it! don't do it!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, somebody just came in and shot my daughter and my husband.
operator: they shot them? are they conscious?
caller: please, she's bleeding out. my daughter is bleeding out.
operator: how old is your daughter?
caller: she's 10.
operator: and where were they shot?
caller: in the head. should i pick her up?
operator: no, no. i want you to leave her where she is.
caller: okay, what am i going to do? are they still there?
operator: do you know who they are?
caller: they're coming back in. they're coming back in.
operator: let me know. are you still there? are you okay?
caller: i don't know, i'm scared. how many people were there?
operator: how many people were there?
caller: i don't know, i was asleep and i can't move. i've been shot myself.
operator: where were you shot?
caller: i think i'm shot in the leg. i'm not sure.
operator: are you armed?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, they're coming lights and sirens. did you see any of them?
caller: no, i just got up because they told us that somebody had escaped jail and needed to check my house. then they shot my husband and my daughter, and they shot me.
operator: they're coming, okay? you said they told your husband they wanted to come in because of an escaped person?
caller: yes, and that the whole property was surrounded with officers.
operator: are they still in the house?
caller: i don't know. i'm sitting here bleeding and i have this gun loaded.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it's a handgun.
operator: yeah. where in the house are you?
caller: i'm in the kitchen, staring at the door.
operator: are you with your husband and your daughter?
caller: no, i can't look at them.
operator: what kind of vehicles do you have on your property?
caller: i have a black suburban in the front and a white ford truck.
operator: did it sound like males were talking?
caller: there was a man and a shorter woman.
operator: what did the woman look like? was she hispanic?
caller: no, she was white.
operator: okay. and what about the man?
caller: he was tall.
operator: were there others?
caller: yes, a hispanic man too.
operator: did you see what they were wearing?
caller: camouflage clothing.
operator: are you holding up okay? keep pressure on your wound.
caller: i'm trying. my husband always had a gun in the house just in case.
operator: that's good. did you hit any of them?
caller: no, they shot at me, and i shot back.
operator: okay, try to stay calm. we're getting help to you as fast as we can.
caller: i yelled at them to get out, but they just kept shooting.
operator: it's going to be okay. they're almost there. stay with me.
caller: please hurry. i don't know how much longer i can hold on.
operator: they should be there any moment. do you hear or see anything outside?
caller: i hear cars driving up. i hope it's them.
operator: they should announce themselves. stay with me until they're with you.
caller: okay, i'm scared.
operator: you're doing great. just hang in there a little longer.
caller: i hear them. they're here.
operator: put the gun down and let them come to you.
caller: i'm in the kitchen. i'm on 999.
operator: tell them you can't move and that you're injured.
caller: okay, i'm doing that.
caller: they're with me now.
operator: okay, i'm going to hang up. you're in good hands now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i think somebody's breaking in the house. we just came home from school and put our pajamas on.
caller: we're really scared. my mom's on her way here.
operator: okay. do you hear someone at the door, or what's going on?
caller: no, we hear them at the back door. we're really scared.
operator: do you hear them at the back door?
caller: yes, they're coming in now.
operator: okay, hold on the line with me.
operator: i don't want you to hang up with me, okay?
caller: i'm not.
operator: okay, i want you to stay on the phone.
caller: okay, i understand that.
operator: we've got officers on their way there, okay?
operator: how old are you?
caller: um, we just got home from school. we had a half day today.
caller: my mom is on her way here.
operator: okay, who else is there with you?
caller: my brother and my sister, but she just went to school.
operator: how old is your brother?
caller: he's seven and the other one's ten.
caller: my mom said, since we had a half day, she was going to come home early to watch us.
operator: okay, i want you to stay on the phone with me.
operator: are you guys downstairs or where are you at?
caller: upstairs. we went in the closet because we're really scared.
operator: that's all right. you can just stay on the phone with me.
operator: i don't want you to hang up until an officer gets there, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: how far away is your mom from the home?
caller: she says she's on her way home, but i really don't know.
operator: okay. have you guys looked out the window or anything?
caller: no, because i'm really scared.
operator: that's okay. that's all right.
operator: i'm just trying to type this into the officers. they're on the way there already, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: where do you guys go to school?
caller: we go to [school name].
operator: and you had a half day?
caller: yeah.
operator: what grade are you in?
caller: i'm in [grade].
caller: i'm about to go to [next grade].
operator: oh, okay. my daughter went to [your school].
caller: did she really like it?
operator: yeah, she did.
caller: are they on their way here yet?
operator: yep, they're on the way. i just wanted to keep you on the phone, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: yeah, i don't want you to hang up because i want you to tell me if you hear somebody in the house, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: this is officer mueller, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: and it's okay. he's going to meet you at the front door. can you unlock it for him?
caller: yes.
operator: you can stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: it's okay.
caller: okay.
operator: are you opening the door now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. you go ahead and talk to officer mueller now, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we need an ambulance at 1397 newport.
operator: 1397 newport?
caller: correct.
operator: what is the problem there?
caller: i think we have a dead person in here.
operator: okay. is the person bleeding at all?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: how old is this person?
caller: 23.
operator: 23, male or female?
caller: female. i have a mother. she's right now seeing the daughter laying on the ground. she found her laying on the ground.
operator: okay, you're not going to hear me for a second, but do not hang up.
caller: okay.
operator: okay, ma'am. tell me exactly what happened.
caller: i don't know what happened. i got home. we found her laying down in the garage. somebody stabbed her with a knife.
operator: somebody stabbed her with a knife?
caller: yes. we need the ambulance as fast as we can. she still has a heartbeat, but she's cold.
operator: she still has a heartbeat, but she's cold?
caller: she's cold and blue.
operator: she's cold and blue. do you know how long she's been there?
caller: i don't know. i just got home from work.
operator: okay. we do have police officers en route and an ambulance also, okay? i want you to stay on the phone with me until they get there. she's still in the garage right now?
caller: yes. i'm scared to move her.
operator: don't move her, okay? you said that she still has a heartbeat, though?
caller: yes, i think so.
operator: do you know who did this?
caller: i don't know. i don't know.
operator: do you see a knife?
caller: no, i don't see the knife.
operator: okay. who else is at the house with you, ma'am?
caller: her mom right now.
operator: is there anyone else at the house?
caller: no, no one.
operator: okay, so you just got home now?
caller: yes. we found her in the garage. we were walking and we were trying to reach her. we couldn't find her. she was not answering the phone.
operator: okay, how long were you guys trying to reach her?
caller: since 9 p.m.
operator: okay, yes ma'am, they're on the way, okay? they're getting there as fast as they can. just take a deep breath. what's her name?
caller: her name is alina.
operator: can you spell it?
caller: a-l-i-n-a.
operator: and what's her last name?
caller: ribnikova. r-i-b-n-i-k-o-v-a.
operator: and she's 23?
caller: she's 22, i think.
operator: okay. what's your name?
caller: victoria.
operator: okay. what's your relation to her?
caller: we are roommates and she's my best friend.
operator: okay. where are you right now?
caller: i'm trying to pull out the cars from the driveway.
operator: you're moving the cars out of the driveway?
caller: yes.
operator: how many cars you have in the driveway?
caller: we have two cars in the driveway.
operator: just leave the cars where they are, okay? the ambulance can get around them.
caller: okay, okay.
operator: are you in a vehicle in the driveway?
caller: no, i'm right now in the garage. i put my car but there's still two more cars.
operator: there are still two more cars?
caller: yes.
operator: do you see the police officers now?
caller: there is one police officer here.
operator: okay. we've got more police officers and the ambulance will be there shortly, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i'll let you talk to the police officers now, okay? you can hang up with me.
caller: okay, goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, can i get help from the police department?
operator: this is the police department. how can i help you?
caller: can i get some assistance at walnut creek apartments?
operator: walnut creek apartments? what's going on over there?
caller: we got an officer down.
operator: what do you mean you have an officer down?
caller: if y'all don't clear this up, all the officers are going to be down.
operator: sir, can you verify your identity?
caller: oh, forget it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah.
operator: what do you need, sir?
caller: yeah, we got a...
operator: sir?
caller: we got a backpack with bombs all around downtown.
operator: okay, where are you going to put the bomb?
caller: we're going to put them downtown and blow everything up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: apd
operator: to what location?
caller: walnut creek apartments.
operator: building and apartment number?
caller: building three, apartment 187.
operator: and what's going on there?
caller: i saw an officer shot down.
operator: you saw an officer being shot down?
caller: yes, a dude was shooting at him.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about 30 minutes ago.
operator: is the officer still there?
caller: i don't know, i'm looking through the window.
operator: and the person who shot him?
caller: i don't know.
operator: you said this was 30 minutes ago?
caller: yes, he wore all black.
operator: a white male wearing all black?
caller: yes.
operator: is there a reason why you didn't call earlier?
caller: i was scared.
operator: do you still see the officer there?
caller: yes.
operator: where is he right now?
caller: laying down screaming for help.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: apd.
operator: how can i help you, sir?
caller: we got an officer down.
operator: i'm sorry?
caller: i've seen a cop get shot.
operator: where are you, sir?
caller: downtown, 6th street, off netches.
scenario:traffic
operator: you saw an officer get shot?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, let me get the ambulance.
operator: ems, what's the address of your emergency?
caller: 6th street and netches.
operator: can you repeat that to make sure i have it correct?
caller: this is an anonymous caller. officer down.
operator: what's the telephone number you're calling from?
caller: anonymous.
operator: if we get disconnected, you need to call us back at 999.
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: officer was shot because he stopped a person.
operator: apd, are you on the line?
operator: do you have a record of this?
caller: no.
operator: ems?
operator: we received a terroristic threat earlier from this number.
operator: his location showed east austin, not downtown.
operator: do you have officers en route over there?
caller: yes, we do.
operator: are you sending anyone to 6th and netches?
caller: it doesn't look like it.
operator: are officers checking the location from the earlier call?
caller: yes, we have officers there. no confirmed officers down.
operator: if you find anything, please call us.
operator: do you have any other calls about an officer down?
caller: no.
operator: thank you.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, 999, where's your emergency?
caller: i'm ready for the police right out.
operator: what?
caller: i'm worried for the police right out.
operator: you need the police?
caller: they're chasing me. i'm running. they're chasing.
operator: why are you running?
caller: because i want to stop.
operator: sir? sir?
caller: but why talk about me?
operator: okay, can you pull over and find out what they want?
caller: what?
caller: she makes some stuff about me.
operator: who's talking about you?
caller: my wife, she made some stuff about me.
operator: your wife?
caller: yes.
operator: well, if it's not true, can you just pull over and talk to them so they can get it all straightened out?
caller: they're not going to talk to me.
operator: what's that?
caller: they're not going to talk to me.
operator: all they want to do is talk to you and find out what's going on so they can get your side of the story. what's your name?
caller: tell them to talk to me right now. i'll stop.
operator: okay, listen, i want you to pull your car over. what kind of car are you in?
caller: look, please, pull out of them?
operator: can you just pull over to the side? the police are not going to hurt you. they just want to talk to you.
caller: can you please put out of them so i can talk to them?
operator: i can't put them on the phone. they're not in here with me, but i can tell them that you're going to stop and you're going to talk to them, and they won't hurt you. they just want to find out what's going on. what's your first name?
caller: they're going to help me. call over, please. tell them all over, please.
operator: okay, are you slowing down?
caller: yeah, the camera.
operator: okay, just can you pull over? the police are not going to hurt you.
caller: you're going to stop right now?
caller: i'm trying to slow down. i see them slow down.
operator: okay, listen to me. when you stop, i want you to stay in your car, and i want you to put your hands on your steering wheel and don't get out until they come up to you, okay?
caller: what do you ask me?
operator: listen to me. did you hear what i said?
caller: did you stop?
caller: i'm stopping now!
operator: did you pull your car over?
caller: i don't want to make them crash.
operator: i will tell them that you're going to stop so they will slow down, okay? just slow down and then pull off to the side.
caller: it's him. one is behind me. tell them to the office right, so i know if you know what you're saying.
operator: okay, i can't hear you. slow down just a little bit.
caller: tell them, the guy behind me, tell them to turn off and say it.
operator: you want them to turn their lights off so you know they're going to stop?
caller: yeah, anything just so i can see that.
operator: okay, hold on a second. let me tell them that.
operator: jeff, tell the units behind him to turn their lights off for a second, and he said he'll stop.
operator: if they turn their lights off, you're going to pull over, right?
caller: yeah.
operator: they're telling them right now to turn the lights off, okay? so let me know when you see the lights go off.
caller: i don't see it up there.
operator: are they still behind you?
caller: yeah.
operator: do you see the police car?
caller: yeah, there's two.
operator: okay, there's two of them, but their lights and sirens are not on anymore, right?
caller: yeah, they're still on.
operator: the lights are on?
caller: yes, they're still on.
operator: how fast are you going?
caller: i'm trying to slow down at a stop sign.
operator: okay, stop. i want you to stop right at the stop sign, okay?
caller: they're too close, and they're not giving me a signal.
operator: they're not going to hit you. they can stop, okay? just stop your car and just let me know when you have stopped, okay?
caller: okay, but tell them to slow down. they're too close.
operator: they will slow down. just focus on slowing down yourself.
caller: he's really close.
operator: lewis, listen. i want you to slow down to like 30 mph and start hitting your brakes.
caller: okay, tell them to slow down.
operator: they're being informed as we speak. are you slowing down?
caller: yes, i'm slowing down.
operator: how fast are you going now?
caller: about 50.
operator: keep slowing down. let me know when you get down to 30.
operator: okay, now i want you to pull over to the side of the road.
caller: they're not going to hit me?
operator: they're not going to hit you. just slow down and pull off.
caller: they're still too close.
operator: lewis, you need to slow down and then come to a stop.
caller: they're too close. i don't want to get hit.
operator: they will stay close until you slow down and stop. hit your brakes, slowly pull to the side, and stop.
caller: back up! tell them to back up. i'm stopping.
operator: when they see you slowing down, they'll back off. are you stopping now?
caller: i'm stopping right now.
operator: are you stopped?
caller: stop it. tell them to back up.
operator: let me know when you have stopped.
caller: stopped.
operator: lewis, can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: is your car in park?
caller: open the door!
operator: lewis?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: n-5631 shaw-hill road.
operator: and 5631 shaw-hill?
caller: yeah, what's going on there?
caller: i need a nanny.
operator: a nanny?
caller: yeah, this is a nanny 999.
caller: i need a babysitter and some friends and...
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, ma'am, i'm not understanding what you need. what's going on?
caller: i just need a babysitter.
operator: okay, 999 does not provide a babysitter, ma'am.
caller: okay.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, there was just a semi-going down red arrow and it had a wheelchair in front of it with a guy in it.
operator: okay, i've got it. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
operator: this is 9-9-9. where are you?
caller: i am on... i have no idea. i'm in pawpaw, obviously.
operator: i can't understand you. where are you?
caller: i'm sorry, i don't know. i'm in pawpaw.
operator: okay, on michigan avenue in front of the middle school?
caller: yes, i'm in the middle of the middle school.
operator: okay, we'll get help over there.
caller: no! i'm sorry to dusty and ti, west michigan avenue in front of help in the school.
operator: you need to calm down. i have help on the way.
caller: a semi hit a subject in a wheelchair and continued westbound on michigan.
operator: okay, what direction is the semi going? did it go westbound?
caller: i don't know. it's going like, i don't know, out of town, i believe.
operator: okay, can you give me a description of it?
caller: it was white, it didn't have a trailer.
operator: okay, white semi-truck, no trailer.
operator: where are you at right now?
caller: i'm just past... i'm across from game and blaze.
caller: oh, my god, it's 1536. sorry, this is bad. we're supposed to be it today. i'm in a tractor with no trailer.
operator: i have the officer in front of the middle school. where are you?
caller: no, look, there's only right now. i just saw him turn around. i'm right in front of hogan insurance agency.
operator: you're in front of hogan insurance agency?
caller: yeah, i'm going to put it in the parking lot.
operator: okay, my caller is in front of hogan insurance in the parking lot.
operator: are you out with them?
caller: they're pulling in right now.
operator: okay, go talk to them, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at the corner of hayton and red arrow. there is a westbound truck dragging a man in a wheelchair. he did not see him crossing in front of him when the light changed.
operator: okay. we'll get help on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm sitting here at the corner of michigan and hayden street in pawpaw. a semi-truck just came by and he does not know it, but he has a gentleman on the front of his truck that is in a wheelchair and he's pushing him down the road.
operator: okay, you're on michigan and haze?
caller: yes, and they are headed west on hazen. i think it was a ralph moyle truck.
operator: westbound on heathen?
caller: no, westbound on michigan. it's a ralph moyle truck, i believe, so i'm pretty sure it was a white semi-truck.
caller: i heard the girl screaming, so i was looking at her when i was getting ready to turn, then looked at the truck and saw it.
caller: the guy in his wheelchair is being pushed by the semi-truck.
operator: okay, we'll get them out there.
caller: all right.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. this is a...
caller: hold on...aids facility. just a hysterical field. and a gunshot's going on...and a lot in the parking lot area.
caller: this is a security officer...
operator: sir?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: there are gunshots occurring outside of the facility in the parking lot.
operator: who's firing?
caller: we don't know. we're going on the pursuit of the...
caller: theirteenth officer in edison.
operator: copy. it sounds like it's going to be a male. i heard a male voice in the background yelling and a female with the reporting party. there's also some loud popping noises in the background.
operator: sir?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: who are you?
caller: i'm at the security office here at rivergrade.
operator: okay, hold on. which portion of the building is it?
caller: it's on the south of the southwest portion.
operator: and what's going on there?
caller: there's gunshots being fired.
operator: do you know who's doing it?
caller: no, ma'am. i'm only in the office and are not.
operator: and you're a security?
caller: yes, ma'am. five stand per security.
operator: it's going to be the southwest portion of sce, and it's unknown if it's a male or female shooting.
operator: sir?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: who do you have responding right now?
caller: my other security officer.
operator: okay. we are on our way right now, okay? do you have any kind of information, like as far as the description or anything?
caller: that was announced to us.
operator: okay, i'm going to put you on hold for a second, okay?
operator: irwindale police.
caller: hi, this is c.c.
operator: hi.
operator: do you guys have anything going on in rivergrade at brooks?
caller: we do. it's an active shooter.
caller: a lot of party that. that we're going there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i need some help. there was someone on my back porch, a black man.
operator: and what is your address?
caller: 3613 baywood lane.
operator: 3613 baywood? uh-huh, greenville, north carolina.
operator: and is he still out there?
caller: i think so.
operator: are you in an apartment or a house?
caller: i'm in a house.
operator: and he's on your back porch?
caller: he was, yes, ma'am.
operator: did you see what he was wearing?
caller: it looked like a black shirt. he's a black guy.
operator: and he's still out there?
caller: i can hear him banging. he's trying to take my grill.
operator: trying to take your grill?
caller: yes, ma'am. i need to get in here, put some clothes on. i'm terrified.
operator: do you know how he got up there? did he walk or did he ride?
caller: he jumped over the fence in the backyard.
operator: so he jumped over your fence?
caller: evidently.
operator: what part of the house are you in?
caller: he's on the front porch now, ma'am.
operator: now he's on the front porch?
caller: on the back porch.
operator: he's on the back porch still?
caller: yes, please, you need to help.
operator: what part of the house are you in?
caller: i'm in my bedroom.
operator: is that in the back or the front of the house?
caller: i'm in the back.
operator: do you have a one-floor house or is it two-story?
scenario:fire
caller: it's two stories.
operator: and you're downstairs or upstairs?
caller: i'm downstairs. please.
operator: can you look to see where he's running to?
caller: i can. i'm scared. i'm in the bathroom.
operator: you're in the bathroom with the door closed?
caller: yeah.
operator: i understand if you want to be quiet, but i'm still here.
operator: can you still hear him moving around in the house?
caller: yes.
operator: where is he now?
caller: in the living room.
operator: is he breaking in?
caller: he's in the back bedroom on the first floor. he's breaking in. i can hear him.
operator: make sure that door is locked.
operator: we're dispatching units to your location. i'm staying on the line with you.
caller: i'm scared.
operator: just stay with me, okay? if you see him, say something so i know what's going on.
operator: do you think you might know who it is?
caller: no.
operator: do you live at this residence by yourself?
caller: yes.
operator: can you still hear him in there?
caller: yeah.
operator: is he breaking things?
caller: yeah.
operator: is he still on the first floor?
caller: yeah.
operator: the living room is in the front of the house, right?
caller: yes.
operator: we've got officers outside your house right now, so hold tight.
operator: are there any lights on that you know of?
caller: no.
operator: be advised, the suspect is now in the living room on the first floor.
caller: i can still hear him.
operator: do you hear the officers outside? they might be making some noise.
operator: can you still hear him moving around?
caller: yes.
operator: where is he now? still in the living room?
caller: he’s running upstairs.
operator: the officers are coming inside now, okay? just stay on the line with me.
operator: is he still upstairs?
caller: yes.
operator: we have officers on the way. do you have motion lights outside the house?
caller: no.
operator: okay, we have entry from the officers. just stay with me.
caller: okay.
operator: do you have an attic space?
caller: no, just a crawl space.
caller: he's coming downstairs now!
operator: okay, the officers are inside with a dog. just stay on the line with me.
caller: i can hear them.
operator: what's your name, ma'am?
caller: dean.
operator: we have your location and the officers are inside.
operator: is that your alarm i heard?
caller: yes.
operator: just stay there. the officers should have contact any moment now.
caller: can i call someone for me?
operator: my dispatcher is contacting your parents and your best friend, who is also a police officer.
operator: the officers will be coming to make contact with you in the bathroom. just a moment.
caller: can i open the door?
operator: wait just a second. let me confirm.
operator: okay, you can come out now and make contact with the officers.
caller: thank you. can i hang up now?
operator: yes, the officers are with you now. you can hang up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just got back from work from target. i'm at 338 thompson drive, and i found my fiancée on the floor in the kitchen. there's blood everywhere.
operator: okay, listen to me. stay on the phone. you said there's blood everywhere? is she conscious?
caller: no, she's not. please help.
operator: okay, i need you to take a deep breath, okay? is she conscious right now?
caller: no, she's cold. i don't understand what's happening.
operator: listen to me, you need to calm down, okay? we're going to get through this. how old is she?
caller: she just turned 59 years old.
operator: alright. and you said she's not awake?
caller: i don't want to touch anything, but there's blood.
operator: can you check if she's awake?
caller: i don't know. when i got here, the front door was unlocked.
operator: i understand. i need you to answer this right now. is she awake?
caller: no, she's not breathing.
operator: she's not breathing either?
caller: no.
operator: okay. and you said the door was open?
caller: no, it was unlocked. it's unusual for it to be unlocked.
operator: have you been through the whole house yet?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay, i want you to leave the house. are you sure she's not breathing?
caller: she's not breathing. please, god, get somebody here.
operator: i have them coming, okay? but if you've not searched the whole house, i need you to go back outside and wait by your car. do you understand?
caller: yes.
caller: what do you mean about the blood?
caller: when i came in, i walked into the kitchen where i put my keys. i saw her on the floor. i fell over, and she's cold.
operator: do you think she's beyond help?
caller: yes. please get an ambulance.
operator: i have them coming, okay? but i'm worried about your safety right now. you said the front door was unlocked?
caller: yes, it's unusual.
operator: okay, give me a second. what time did you leave the house?
caller: around 9:45. i left to get something to eat before going to work.
operator: and you found her on the floor where?
caller: in the kitchen, close to the dining area. my god, who would do this?
operator: when was the last time you spoke to her?
caller: right before i left. we said goodbye, she gave me a kiss, and i drove off.
operator: i have ems and the fire department coming out there.
caller: she had both outside lights on; that's unusual for her.
operator: the lights were on when you arrived?
caller: yes, i thought she might have gone to sleep and forgot to lock the door.
operator: are you outside right now?
caller: yes, i'm in the driveway. please tell them to hurry.
operator: they are on the way. i'm not going to get off the phone with you. stay with me.
caller: okay.
caller: who could have done this to her?
operator: did you touch her at all?
caller: i felt her with the back of my hand. she's cold.
operator: do you think you're safe where you are right now?
caller: yes, i'm fine. i don't know if she fell, but there's blood. there's a towel around her ankles, and there's blood at her head.
caller: she was going to stay up until midnight to ring her grandmother's bell for the 4th of july, so i know she would have been awake.
operator: they're coming, okay? stay put.
caller: the ems team is here.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm over here. california highway patrol.
caller: hey, we've got some shootings over here in seal beach.
operator: okay, where?
caller: it's at the salon, the maritogh on pch and fifth street.
caller: we need an ambulance.
operator: pch at fifth. who's shot?
caller: some people in the salon here.
operator: okay, hold on.
operator: let me connect you to the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: the shooter, is he still there?
caller: no, we saw him walk away. i think he's down the street.
caller: we saw him in a truck down the street.
operator: okay, who was it?
caller: i don't know. it was some large white man.
operator: white male adult?
caller: yeah, white male, maybe about 300 pounds.
operator: okay, why did he start shooting?
caller: what's that?
operator: why was he shooting?
caller: i don't know. we were at a construction site across the street.
operator: okay, hold on.
operator: i need to connect you with the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: they're at a salon, a hair salon.
operator: police department. hi, at jordan county. we have a transfer. shots fired at pch and fifth.
caller: yes, we have it. ma'am, are you involved?
operator: i have a description of the shooter.
operator: hello. hello.
operator: okay, he said a white male adult, approximately 300 pounds, last seen wearing a white shirt.
operator: sir? sir.
operator: did he have any other description?
caller: no, he said he walked away. did he say which way he went?
caller: no, but he was walking towards a truck.
operator: sir, are you there?
operator: do you have his number?
caller: no, i'm sorry. i'll stay on the line if i can get this.
caller: thank you.
caller: my friend is in there.
operator: i know. i know.
operator: is anybody else hurt?
caller: i'm not involved in this.
operator: i need you to stay back.
caller: yeah.
operator: just stay over here.
caller: somebody's going to have to.
caller: i can't come right here.
operator: no, you need to stay back.
caller: it's right there, it's right there.
caller: you're good.
operator: just stay right here.
caller: oh, okay.
caller: oh no, because i was talking to the lady there.
operator: we have a chance, please.
operator: do you have them?
operator: got them to stop the room.
caller: got them?
operator: we need someone to stay here, please.
caller: hello.
caller: hello.
caller: hello.
operator: is anyone else there?
caller: there's now seven victims.
caller: i have seven victims.
caller: hello.
caller: can i need another?
operator: hold on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we need an ambulance. i'm on highway 100.
operator: where on highway 100?
caller: i don't know. i'm on my way to watch the hospital, but i don't know if i'll make it. i'm trying to get to the next road.
operator: okay, i'm going to get an ambulance with my partner. are you by yourself?
caller: no, i have people with me.
operator: okay. how many weeks pregnant are you?
caller: i'm 37 weeks.
operator: you're 37 weeks? is this your first pregnancy?
caller: this is my sixth.
operator: your sixth pregnancy? how far apart are your contractions?
caller: like every two minutes.
operator: every two minutes? okay. are you still driving?
caller: he's driving.
operator: you need to get off the road.
caller: he missed the light. we're at the junction of p and v.
operator: okay, you're at the junction of p and v. stay on the line with me.
caller: i am.
operator: are you still having a contraction right now?
caller: yes, very badly. and i have a lot of pressure.
operator: okay, i don't want you to push, okay?
caller: i'm trying not to.
operator: alright, just try to wait. the ambulance is on the way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: let me know when the contraction is done.
caller: now again.
operator: okay, breathe with it.
caller: okay.
operator: take a deep breath in, and a little breath out.
caller: okay, i feel a lot of pressure.
operator: who is with you?
caller: my husband.
operator: can you put him on the phone for me?
caller: alright, hold on.
operator: okay, sir, i want you to lay her down if you can.
caller: okay, i'm richie.
operator: alright, richie, do you have your hazards on?
caller: yes.
operator: is she feeling pressure right now?
caller: yeah, she's screaming.
operator: does she have pants or a dress on?
caller: pants.
operator: can you take them off of her?
caller: okay, they're off.
operator: you're doing a great job. is she having a contraction right now?
caller: i think so.
operator: okay. can you see the baby's head?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: alright. leave her on her back, and encourage her to breathe.
operator: when she has her next contraction, see if you can see the baby's head.
caller: okay.
operator: who's her doctor?
caller: dr. potts.
operator: alright. she's able to breathe right now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. if this is her sixth baby, she knows how to breathe. make sure she doesn't push.
caller: oh crap, the head is coming out.
operator: alright, i'm going to tell you what to do, richie. support the baby's head.
caller: okay, i'm supporting it.
operator: is the baby completely out?
caller: yes.
operator: do you have a clean towel or cloth?
caller: not really.
operator: use her pants to wipe off the baby's mouth and nose. is it a boy or girl?
caller: it's a boy.
operator: congratulations! lay the baby on her belly and keep him warm. don't pull on the cord. do you have a shoelace?
caller: yes.
operator: tie the umbilical cord about 6 inches from the baby. just tie, don't cut.
caller: okay, done.
operator: how's the baby?
scenario:robbery
caller: he's doing good.
operator: has the afterbirth come out?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: alright, the ambulance should be there soon. congratulations!
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay with her until they arrive.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i need an ambulance, i'm on highway 100, somewhere between t and v.
operator: where exactly on 100?
caller: i just went through highway t and v as in victor.
operator: so you're west of t?
caller: yes, heading towards highway 44.
operator: how far past t are you?
caller: i just pulled over as soon as i talked to you.
operator: okay. how old are you?
caller: 54.
operator: alright, i'm going to get an ambulance on the way. what’s your name?
caller: larry.
operator: larry, do you have a history of heart problems?
caller: yeah, i'm taking medicine.
operator: do you have any aspirin with you?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: alright. my partner has the ambulance on the way. you don’t have to talk to me, but i’ll stay on the line with you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: did you just start feeling this way?
caller: i've been feeling it for about 30 minutes. i just left a scrap yard in franklin county, trying to untie my trailer, and felt tightness in the chest. i thought, better stop.
operator: so you got back in your truck and turned the air conditioner on, but it’s not getting better?
caller: no, it's not getting better.
operator: are you taking any other medications?
caller: no.
operator: are you in your vehicle?
caller: no, i'm sitting on the ground in front. i was going to try to lay down.
operator: okay, lie down if that makes you more comfortable.
caller: i feel like somebody's sitting on my chest.
operator: try to take some deep breaths, larry.
caller: i'll try.
operator: it's all right, larry. the ambulance is on the way. is anybody around to help you?
caller: no one's stopping.
operator: it's okay. your wife will be relieved that you're getting help.
caller: i don't want to call her. she'll be scared.
operator: don't worry, we won't call her now.
caller: i'm not ready to go, i've got young grandkids.
operator: it's alright, larry. you're going to see ryan and lindsay soon. stay with me.
caller: i don't see anybody coming. my wife's going to kill me.
operator: no, she won’t. she’ll just be glad that you’re okay.
caller: okay, i'll try.
operator: what's your wife’s name?
caller: kathy.
operator: alright, kathy and the grandkids will be glad you're getting help. do you feel short of breath?
caller: yes.
operator: try to take some slow, deep breaths.
caller: i don't think i'm going to make it.
operator: yes, you are. you're going to make it. stay with me.
caller: i see the ambulance, but they're too far away.
operator: they're coming. stay with me, larry. ryan and lindsay are waiting for you.
caller: i'll try.
operator: stay with me. do you see them getting closer?
caller: yeah, they're almost here.
operator: alright, larry. help is almost there. hang in there.
caller: i see them.
operator: okay, good. stay with me until they get to you.
caller: they are here.
operator: okay, larry. you're going to be fine. let them take care of you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm the instructor at the front of a class. i've got three down. i'm not sure if they're all dead, but i'm pretty sure.
operator: what happened?
caller: i had a student that had withdrawn from the program. she came to me earlier looking for help. i sent her to get her transcripts, then she went to someone else's office, and then she came back to my office.
caller: i asked her to take a seat for a minute until i could finish the tests, and then she just started shooting. i hit the ground, and when i turned around, everyone else hit the ground with me. when i got up, she was reloading the gun.
operator: was she a black or white female?
caller: black, heavyset, real curly hair. she shot two other people and then shot herself.
operator: okay. and what room were you in?
caller: it's the emt class, room 283.
operator: alright, stay on the line. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: his name is matt. i guess he knows her.
operator: okay, 999, what's the address?
caller: it's peaches on cortez.
operator: what's happening there?
caller: he was shooting, there are injuries.
operator: what does he look like?
caller: he's probably 6'4, white, wearing a gray shirt and jeans. he's got a mustache and goatee.
operator: what's he driving?
caller: he's getting in a dark gray jeep cherokee.
operator: are you able to see the license plate?
caller: yes, it's 795 j-o-v. could be j-d-v, but i know it was 795.
operator: which direction did he go?
caller: he just turned onto 59. i couldn't see the direction, i'm inside the building.
operator: how many people are injured?
caller: just one, she's been shot several times. she's not moving.
operator: okay, they're on the way. is she still breathing?
caller: oh my god, no, she's not moving at all.
operator: all right, police and medical are on the way. what's your name?
caller: my name is jeb.
operator: okay, jeb. you've been a great help. they're on the way.
caller: all right, thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, 134, transferring another caller about the shooting.
operator: hello, what's your emergency?
caller: no, he just got in the car and took off. it's like an suv, royal blue.
operator: did you get the license plate by chance?
caller: no, there's a guy laying there. i think he's been shot a couple times.
operator: are they inside peaches or where are they?
caller: yeah, they're just outside the jewelry store.
operator: okay, police and medical are on the way. thank you for your help.
caller: yes, thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i think my son's been killed.
operator: where at?
caller: we're in the evergreen trailer park on bolson street, trailer 81.
operator: okay, what's the exact address?
caller: walton street, trailer 81, evergreen trailer park in north canton.
operator: is it in north canton city?
caller: yes, it is in north canton city.
operator: alright, stay on the line, okay? it's not coming up on my map, so i want to make sure we get the right place.
operator: stay on the line.
caller: okay.
operator: north canton emergency.
caller: yes, this is judy smith. i'm at my son's trailer park.
operator: uh-huh.
caller: we just broke in and it looks like he's in the bathroom, but his head's missing.
operator: wait, what? his head isn’t there?
caller: i know it sounds really weird, but...
operator: wait a minute. you’re in his trailer, and you see him in the bathroom?
caller: it looks like him. i don't know.
caller: could you just dispatch an officer?
operator: yeah, we'll send an officer.
caller: there's a body or something there. it looks like his legs.
operator: okay. alright. we'll have an officer up there, all right?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 3124 north truewood, number b.
operator: what's the emergency?
caller: there's a gunshot wound to the chest.
operator: number b?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, help is on the way. how old is the victim?
caller: he's a 30-year-old male. shot to the left side in the chest. there's bubbles coming out of his nose.
operator: it sounds like a sucking chest wound. do you know if this was accidental or intentional?
caller: i think it was an accident.
operator: alright, stay calm. help is on the way. what's the victim's name?
caller: his name is justin thomas.
operator: roll his head to the side to see if you can get the blood out of his mouth. is he breathing?
caller: he's breathing, but there are bubbles coming out of his mouth occasionally. it's not regular.
operator: is anyone else there with you?
caller: yes, i have two other people here. we're trying to do first aid.
operator: was anyone else with him when the accident happened?
caller: no, it seems like it was an accident involving his son. he came over to get some stuff. i was in bed, but a buddy of mine was with him.
operator: how old is his son?
caller: the child's about three or four.
operator: was a pistol involved?
caller: yes, it was a .380 caliber pistol on the countertop.
operator: where is the gun now?
caller: i moved it. i'm going to unload it so it's safe.
operator: okay, go ahead and secure the weapon. let me know when it's done.
caller: all done. the weapon is secure, and a round is missing, i think.
operator: alright. what's your name, sir?
caller: my name is james.
operator: james, are you in the room with justin right now?
caller: yes.
operator: is he responsive?
caller: no, he's not responsive. he's breathing, but not regularly. there are bubbles coming out of his mouth.
operator: i need you to lay him flat on his back. is there anything under his head?
caller: no, nothing under his head. he's flat on his back.
operator: good. pull his chin up slightly to make sure his airway is clear. let me know when that's done.
caller: okay, his chin is up and airway clear.
operator: we're going to start cpr. are you ready?
caller: yes, i'm ready.
operator: place the heel of your hand on his breastbone, right between the nipples. place your other hand on top of that. are you in position?
caller: yes, i'm ready.
operator: pump hard and fast, 30 times, about twice per second. let the chest come all the way up between pumps. count out loud for me.
caller: okay, doing it now. one, two, three... eighteen... twenty-nine, thirty.
operator: check his mouth and let me know if there's anything other than blood.
caller: there's something thicker and darker than blood.
operator: alright. tilt his head back, pinch his nose closed, and give him two regular breaths. you can skip this if you're uncomfortable.
caller: okay, i tried.
operator: james, can you hear me? we're going back to compressions. continue until help arrives.
caller: alright, continuing cpr.
operator: is someone else there to assist?
caller: the firefighters just arrived.
operator: okay, i'll let them take over. you're doing great. thank you, james.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi. i just saw somebody run into the compass bank on thomas and 34th avenue with a mask on.
operator: 34th? we don't know if he's robbing it or not, but we're sitting across the street.
operator: okay, i'm going to get somebody started. what kind of vehicle did they come in?
caller: looks like a white, four-door, scion, or mitsubishi.
operator: and you said 34th avenue and thomas?
caller: yeah, it's compass bank.
operator: okay.
caller: i don't see anything happening. we could be wrong; we just saw him running in with a mask on. we don't know what's going on.
operator: so he jumped out of a white, what kind of vehicle?
caller: it looks like a four-door, late model, maybe 2007 or 2008.
operator: did you get a plate number?
caller: no, it's across the street and i'm at a burger shop.
operator: was it a male or female? could you tell?
caller: they had a mask on.
operator: what were they wearing?
caller: gray sweatshirt and gray beanie.
caller: look, the cars are leaving.
operator: was it that silver car?
caller: no, that was a lady who got in that one.
operator: okay, so the person wearing the gray sweatshirt and gray beanie, did the beanie cover their face?
caller: hang on a second. it looked like a gray bandana around his mouth and over his eyes.
operator: so not a mask?
caller: i don't know for sure. there's a guy waiting in the car.
operator: so there's another person in the white car?
caller: yeah, there's a person waiting. the police are pulling right behind him right now.
operator: okay, there's somebody in the white car, correct?
caller: yeah, he's got a white beanie hat on. i think he's a concerned citizen.
operator: would you like to speak to the officers when they come out?
caller: no, i don't need to, but you can call me if needed. they're behind the correct car.
operator: okay, so the officers are watching?
caller: yes, they're already here.
caller: oh god, he's got a gun and they're shooting! they're shooting!
operator: so there's shooting now?
caller: yes, one guy is down. i'm an eyewitness to this whole situation.
operator: okay. was there only one person?
caller: i didn't see a second person. he ran to the back of the car and put something in the back seat before getting in.
operator: you did not see a second person enter?
caller: no, it looked like there might have been, but it was probably just the visor.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't want emergency. the lake and i ride on horses out at rocky canyon, north of eagle road. do you know where that is?
operator: oh, sir, there's several miles there. how far up are you?
caller: do you know where they ride the horse? you go down eagle road past stilwell?
operator: are you touched? you go out past floating feather, back beacon light, out towards stilwell?
caller: uh-huh. and you got it all the way out.
operator: okay, sir, do you need police, fire, or paramedics?
caller: my wife's up, up, up a horse.
operator: okay, and you're down the bottom of the canyon?
caller: he's not moving.
operator: sir?
caller: no.
operator: yes. let me get the paramedics on the line with us. just a second.
caller: okay.
operator: paramedic dispatch with the address to emergency. what is the address?
caller: the heseltz. we're out on horses. out north, eagle road.
operator: eagle road and where?
caller: you go past floating feather, and beacon light all the way out to where they ride the horses at. all the way out past stilwell.
operator: do you know the exact location?
caller: oh my gosh. are you in boise, or in ada county?
caller: yes, i believe i am.
operator: okay, hold on one second. let me see if i can get a hold of the map here. hold on one second. you're on eagle and past stilwell?
caller: yes. it's quarters.
operator: back quarters? yeah, all the way out where it turns to almost dirt.
operator: are you by willow creek?
caller: i'm not sure, ma'am.
caller: i don't know. if i go north on eagle, how far am i going?
caller: all the way out eagle road. all the way up.
operator: okay, is it on a dirt road?
caller: where you have come in, it probably is.
operator: okay, if i go to eagle and willow creek, will i get there?
caller: i believe so.
operator: so if i go up to willow creek at the end where it's dirt road, which way do i need to go from there?
caller: you just follow eagle road on out.
operator: onto the dirt road?
caller: yeah, there's a gate.
operator: is the gate locked?
scenario:fire
caller: green gate.
operator: is it locked?
caller: no.
operator: and we just keep going through that.
caller: and you turn and go through the gate and you come all the way down. i'll try to meet you out there.
operator: okay, what's the medical emergency?
caller: she has been thrown off a horse over the edge of rocky canyon cliff. it's a long way down.
operator: okay, so rocky canyon cliff?
caller: yes.
operator: how far is she down the cliff?
caller: probably 100 feet. she's not moving.
operator: okay, he said she's not moving? how old is she?
caller: 52.
operator: so she's about 100 feet down?
caller: at least.
operator: do you know if she's conscious or unconscious?
caller: i have no idea. i'm going to try to get down there.
operator: okay, i'd rather you not. i don't want to have two patients. i need to make sure that you get down safely.
caller: i might be able to.
operator: okay, hold on one second. are you by any houses at all?
caller: i could be.
operator: do you see any houses around you?
caller: not that i can see.
operator: how far off eagle road would you say it is?
caller: probably three, four miles down the dirt. there's a couple of houses.
operator: there's houses? cars can drive down this road?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, so past willow creek, north on eagle onto the dirt road past a green fence. correct?
caller: correct. you'll first go by a horse turn off. it's still paved. you'll go on down and then there's the green gate to your right-hand side.
operator: okay, hold on one second. are you in a car or on a horse?
caller: i have a horse. i got one horse running.
operator: okay. i'm not worried about the horses. i'm more concerned about her, okay? are you near her or can you see her?
caller: yes, i can see her.
operator: you can see her. is she moving at all?
caller: no, she is not.
operator: have you called down to her? is she answering you?
caller: no, she is not.
operator: okay. so you believe she's unconscious?
caller: i believe so.
operator: okay. you don't have a way without hurting yourself to get down to her, correct?
caller: yes, i can. i'll have to go around to the other side, but i can get down to her.
operator: okay. is there anybody else there with you?
caller: no.
operator: okay, because i want to make sure we get help to you. i'm going to keep you on the phone. have you gone past erin lane?
operator: okay, do you know where erie lane is off of willow creek?
caller: no.
caller: when you come up eagle, you pass beacon lights.
operator: yes.
caller: and then you come up, willow creek goes up to erie lane, up to boise and meridian road.
caller: boise meridian road.
operator: you're going to need a brush rate.
caller: i know, you're north eagle road. it goes all the way up into almost the airy lane and it ends and then goes into the dirt road.
operator: okay, do you see, did you go back quarters?
caller: yes.
operator: did you go back stilwell road and quarters?
caller: okay, i do have people that are running that way now. i'm just trying to find you, okay? we're just getting a general idea. we're going to come up eagle road, okay? but we're just trying to get a general location where you're at, and i want to make sure i get you the right help and get you where we need to go. so i'm going to keep you on the phone with me.
operator: okay. let me just pull this up real quick. okay.
operator: eagle. okay, go on eagle road, right? okay, i'm on eagle road. i'm passing quarters.
caller: okay, keep going to go. that's willow creek. i'm going up willow creek.
operator: okay. how far from quarters do i need to go?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, my fiancé is going crazy. i think he's going to try to kill himself. i need an ambulance; they're going to have to restrain him.
operator: is he hurting anyone else, or just himself?
caller: he's not hurting anyone else, but he's screaming that he hates himself and he wants to die, and he's hitting himself in the head.
operator: all right, one second. how long has he been drinking?
caller: no, just since like eight.
operator: just since eight tonight?
caller: yes, this just started.
operator: is he aware of you calling?
caller: no.
operator: what's the cell phone number you're calling from in case we get disconnected?
caller: <provides phone number>
operator: how old is he?
caller: 31.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: yes.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: is he violent right now?
caller: towards himself.
operator: does he have a weapon?
caller: no.
operator: where is he now in the house?
caller: in the downstairs with my roommate and one of his friends.
operator: are they just keeping an eye on him?
caller: one of them is holding him, trying to keep him from hitting himself.
operator: so you have at least one person trying to restrain him?
caller: yes.
operator: is he completely awake right now?
caller: yes.
caller: can i go down there to check on him?
operator: yes, but stay on the phone with me. if you need to put the phone down, that's okay.
operator: are there any weapons present in the house?
caller: no, just kitchen utensils.
operator: okay, i'm going to keep you on the phone until the officers get there due to the seriousness of the situation. are your friends aware that you're calling?
caller: yes, but i really need to get down there.
operator: go ahead and walk down there. i'll stay on the phone with you. protect him from himself, but protect yourself first.
caller: hey, look at me. look at me.
operator: we've got police on the way; they'll be there first to assist.
caller: okay.
operator: we do have crisis intervention officers; one of them will be arriving.
caller: okay.
operator: can you unlock the front door and make sure they can get in?
caller: yes.
caller: they're here.
operator: alright, they're there. good luck.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: well, hi, i'm an emergency. this is ramigran. i'm at gracewood deli.
caller: i specifically asked for little turkey and little ham and a lot of cheese and a lot of mayonnaise. and they give me a hard time with him and he stopped by and just...
operator: who is this?
caller: this is ramigran. i was just wondering if you could just...
operator: you're calling 9-9-9 because you don't like the way they're making your sandwich?
caller: exactly. so they don't buy it.
operator: okay. just walk away and don't buy it if they don't want to make it the way you want it.
caller: she's telling me she won't make it for me again, and it's because of that, you know. so, i mean, i just want to solve this the right way. she's giving me a hard time.
caller: her system made it, but she left. they played games with me. so i was just wondering if you can come by.
operator: do they work there?
caller: yes, they work here.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: mclean, capital m-c, capital l-e-n-n-o-n.
operator: and you said your first name is?
caller: rather, capital r-o-t-h-r.
caller: i just want to resolve, and i want to be able to come back here and get my regular sandwiches that i asked for. i already told her, i already asked her, maybe i have to come down before they make it and get my sandwiches that way, because it seems like they're not listening to me. they just put down anything they want and then they expect me to pay for it.
operator: okay, in the future, just don't, you can stay there, stay outside, i'll send somebody.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: and in the future, just don't buy the sandwich.
operator: look at it before you buy it, okay?
caller: all right. thank you, ma'am. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm calling. i have a concern for a co-worker. she just called in, sounding very strange, and i asked her where she's being abducted or held hostage, and she was just like, yeah, yeah.
operator: i can help you. do you need to call our line or is there someone else i should transfer you to?
caller: she's taking her son to school.
operator: is she out in the car right now?
caller: yes, she called from the car. she says she was taking her son to school.
operator: what's her phone number?
caller: stay on the line with me.
operator: do you know where she lives?
caller: i do know where she lives.
operator: if she's driving, is someone with her in the vehicle?
caller: yes, someone is in the car with her.
operator: do we know where she is at this time?
caller: all i know is she said she was taking her son to school. i don't know her exact location.
operator: do we know what kind of car she's in?
caller: she drives a toyota corolla.
operator: is it a newer or older model?
caller: it's a new one.
operator: what does she do for work?
caller: she's a nursing assistant.
operator: what's her name?
caller: her last name is elskine.
operator: when did you talk to her?
caller: it wasn't even five minutes ago.
operator: has she had trouble in her personal life?
caller: yes, she's been trying to get him to move out.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is...
operator: and your phone number?
caller: it's...
operator: do you know her address at home?
caller: yes, i know where she lives.
operator: is she a black female?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know her date of birth?
caller: i believe it's in the hr files, we're checking now.
operator: has she had a situation similar to this before?
caller: not that i'm aware of.
operator: did she sound hurried or just distant?
caller: she sounded distant. i could barely hear her.
operator: what did she say to you on the phone?
caller: she just said she was taking her son to school. nothing else.
operator: is it normal that she calls to tell you she's taking the child to school?
caller: no, because we know she does that every morning before work.
operator: do you have her home address?
caller: yes, it's...
operator: do you know the home phone number?
caller: yes, but her father is not always there.
operator: alright, i'm going to work on this. if you hear anything, call me back. my name is at the orlando police department.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is the sheriff's office with a transfer. the address is 4037 northwest woodston road, unit 10b at oak tree village.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: my boyfriend's outside. he's been stabbed.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: he's breathing but profusely because he takes five of us to begin with.
operator: okay, what apartment are you at? are you at the campground side or the apartment side?
caller: the apartment side.
operator: do you know who stabbed him?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: you stabbed him?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: where is the knife that you stabbed him with?
caller: it's on the floor inside the apartment.
operator: okay. why did you stab him?
caller: confrontation.
operator: are you outside with him now?
caller: no, i had to go inside to grab my phone.
operator: i understand. are you now outside with him?
caller: no, ma'am, i'm not.
operator: what is your name?
caller: my name's donna picklesheimer. p-i-c-k-e-l-s-h-e-i-m-e-r.
operator: thank you, donna. are you with the knife now?
caller: no, i'm out here with him.
caller: oh my god, i think he's dead.
operator: is he breathing or not breathing?
caller: i don't know.
operator: is his chest rising and falling?
caller: no.
operator: so he's not breathing?
caller: i don't know, ma'am.
operator: are you outside with him now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: did you take his pulse?
caller: there's no pulse, ma'am.
operator: okay, stay with me, donna. what's your boyfriend's name?
caller: sean haney.
operator: officers are on the way. are you going to be able to flag them down?
caller: yes, i can.
operator: i need you to stay on the phone with me, donna. don't hang up, okay?
caller: i understand, but if my phone dies, it's because of the battery.
operator: i understand. just try to stay on the phone.
caller: okay.
operator: are you inside or outside?
caller: i'm outside.
operator: do you see the officers?
caller: yes, they're here now.
operator: okay, you can hang up the phone now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: help me, please. there's a fire.
operator: where's the fire at?
caller: oh, no, it's wrong.
operator: is your house on fire?
operator: is your house on fire?
caller: hello? hello? please, get up! grandma! come on! come on!
caller: come on, please! get up. grandma, come on!
caller: can you help?
operator: okay. is your house on fire?
caller: yeah, come on.
operator: is your grandma still in the house?
caller: oh, i got it, come on, grandma.
operator: are you guys out of the house?
caller: i'm back, come on.
operator: is there any gas in there?
caller: go ahead. come on, i'm taking you all.
operator: are you there?
caller: come on. get up!
caller: come!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just killed someone, 100, route 46.
operator: what do you mean you just killed someone?
caller: exactly what i said. i'm armed and dangerous.
operator: where are you?
caller: i don't know the address of this place.
operator: okay, what road are you on?
caller: i'm not on route 46.
operator: you're on route 46?
scenario:domestic
caller: no, i'm in the parking lot. i think it's behind the hotel or something.
operator: do you know the name of the hotel, sir?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, well, do you know, are there any other businesses around you?
caller: yes, exit realty gold. that's where i killed the person.
operator: exit realty gold?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what did you kill them with?
caller: you know what? i'm armed, i'm dangerous, send the cops out. i'm in a parking lot. i can see from every angle. i will shoot at anyone who approaches the car.
operator: okay, i understand that, sir, but i'm trying to figure out what type of weapons you have, so we know exactly what's going on out there. i'm not mocking you. i'm being truthful with you. i need to know what type of weapons you have.
caller: i have a gun.
operator: you have a gun. okay. how many people did you hurt?
caller: you know, i'm not in a condition to talk.
operator: okay, can you at least tell me the city you're in so i can send the police out there?
caller: mountain lakes.
operator: you're in mountain lakes?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay. so you're in mountain lakes, new jersey, and you killed someone.
operator: and you're behind a hotel, you said?
operator: and you're in the parking lot.
operator: are you standing by a car or are you inside a car?
caller: i'm inside a car.
operator: you're inside a vehicle. what kind of car is it?
caller: it's a white honda civic.
operator: it's a honda civic? where, okay, where is the person you killed?
operator: they're killed inside the exit realty gold?
caller: that's correct.
operator: how many people did you kill? just one person?
caller: just one person.
operator: okay, again, you're in mountain lakes, route 46 in the parking lot by exit realty gold. do you know the person that you killed?
caller: so what? just get the cops here.
operator: sir, the cops are on the way.
caller: i'm reloading right now. i'm going to shoot at anybody that approaches the car.
operator: okay. that's not a problem, sir. i'd advise you not to reload and do that, but... what's your name?
caller: i'm sure when you get my driver's license, you'll know it. just send the cops out.
operator: what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it's a long-range gun.
operator: it's a long-range gun, so you have a rifle?
caller: right.
operator: you only have a long-range rifle on you, right?
caller: no, i have handguns also.
operator: you have handguns and a long-range rifle?
caller: that's right.
operator: okay. what color is your honda civic?
caller: it's white.
caller: you know what? i need to make some calls and let people know that, you know, i'm going to be dead now.
operator: well, i'd appreciate if you stay on the line with me because it's, you know. i'd rather you not kill yourself or kill anybody else. it's a little bit more important to me that you stay alive.
caller: i need to call and tell them that i'm going to be dead soon.
operator: you don't have to go anywhere. you can stay on the phone with me, sir. we can de-escalate this and make things better, okay?
caller: we're not going to de-escalate this. i'm looking to escalate.
operator: you're looking to escalate this? i don't think that's a good idea. tell the officers that, you know, i don't want to kill anybody else.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, we need an ambulance.
operator: where is your emergency?
caller: we're at westport shopping center, right outside norton immediate care center. we had somebody that looked like they had heat exhaustion out on our lawn crew, and he's in pretty rough shape right now.
operator: what's the address you're at?
caller: uh, hang on. alberta, what's the address on the building? 1321. 1321, her lane.
caller: 1321, her lane. it's at the westport shopping center, right outside the norton immediate care center.
operator: okay. what's your phone number?
caller: 502-548-0889.
operator: and what's your name?
caller: my name is daniel rout.
operator: okay daniel, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: we were doing a job, lawn crew, and i noticed that he was shaking. so we got him out of the sun and gave him some water to drink. as time progressed, he started getting worse.
operator: i've got ems started, i need to ask a few more questions. has he ever had a heart attack or angina?
caller: no, he's never had a heart attack, i don't think.
operator: okay, i'm sending the paramedics to help you now. stay on the line and i'll tell you exactly what to do next.
caller: all right. thank you, ma'am.
operator: what i want you to do is remove him from any sources of heat. remove his outer clothing, apply cool water to his entire skin surface while fanning him.
caller: all right. we can do that.
operator: do you have any water that you can put on him?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay. put cool water on his skin and try to fan him.
caller: okay.
operator: i'm going to stay on the line with you. is he still breathing?
caller: yes, he's still breathing.
operator: lay him flat on his back.
caller: that's going to be a little hard. we're going to have to extract him from the back of the truck in order to do that, ma'am.
operator: is he in the backseat?
caller: yes, he's in the back seat.
caller: not to sound rude or anything, ma'am, but we need the ambulance like right now.
operator: i understand, they're on the way. my talking to you is not delaying the ambulance.
operator: i need you to try to get him flat on his back. if he's not awake, we need to maintain his airway.
caller: okay, ma'am.
operator: are you able to lay him across the back seat?
caller: he was laid across the back seat, but now we're trying to get him on his back.
operator: i need you to look into his mouth for any food or vomit. is there anything in his mouth?
caller: no, there's nothing in his mouth.
caller: hello.
operator: sir?
caller: i'm trying to help him but i really need someone here.
operator: sir, i am trying to help. follow my instructions. is he on his back now, and are you cooling him?
caller: yes.
operator: good. i need you to call me back if anything changes.
caller: the ambulance is coming, i think.
operator: good. stay with him until they arrive.
caller: i will. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, we need an officer right now. there's a man shooting at this lady. we need a cop.
operator: where are you located?
caller: i don't know where we are. oh my gosh, what street is this called?
caller: 2711 10th street. we need help.
operator: okay, i hear you. i understand. are you okay?
caller: please, i need an ambulance and police. we have babies around here too. there's babies in the car. he won't give them to the mom.
operator: alright. what happened? is she hurt? was she shot?
caller: yes, she's hurt. she's bleeding everywhere. she can't stand. she's fainting.
operator: okay, we will send ems out. you said the address is 2711 10th street?
caller: yes, 2711 10th street.
caller: he's shooting. he killed the kids! he killed!
operator: he's shooting her again?
caller: yes, no. he killed the babies. he killed them!
caller: the babies! oh my god, the babies!
operator: okay, stay on the line with me, please.
caller: please, stay with me too.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: seizures on sunset and larrabee, please come here.
operator: okay, calm down a little bit, okay? what's the address where you need us?
caller: it's sunset and larrabee. it's the viper room.
operator: okay, what's the address, do you know?
caller: it's the viper room. it's cold!
operator: okay, sir? sir, calm down a little bit, okay?
caller: i'm sorry, it's my brother. please come here.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 23.
operator: calm down, okay? if you can't calm down, get the phone to somebody else.
caller: no, there's no one else around.
operator: okay. i'm fine. i think he's had a problem or something. i don't know.
operator: who's with him right now?
caller: um, my sister and some other people.
operator: okay, can you talk to her from where you are?
caller: i'm trying to give him mouth-to-mouth.
operator: sir, calm down. tell her not to give him mouth-to-mouth unless he's not breathing.
caller: don't give him mouth-to-mouth.
operator: you only give him mouth-to-mouth if he's not breathing. what's he doing? does it seem like he's sleeping right now?
caller: yeah, it just looks like he's sleeping.
operator: okay, that's very normal after a seizure. sometimes they do actually go to sleep. if he goes into another seizure, just let him have it. don't try to restrain him, alright?
caller: what about putting something in his mouth?
operator: do not put anything in his mouth, okay? he will not swallow his tongue, believe me. just let him go ahead and have another seizure if it happens. paramedics are on the way, they should be there shortly.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'd like to report a shooting, please.
operator: okay, what is the address?
caller: the address is 9063 c lane, s-e-a, lane, southwest.
operator: okay, so it's not happening at your residence?
caller: no, it's right next door. the lady that lives there, her husband just came in and said that she shot herself.
operator: okay, i understand. so, her husband found her like that?
caller: yes, he said she shot herself.
operator: alright, and you said the address is 9063 c lane?
caller: yes, i think so. i'm not exactly sure of the address.
operator: okay, i came to drop, you all.
caller: i walked into the house. i heard two loud shots and then she's... oh, my god.
operator: okay, calm down. is someone there with you?
caller: yes, the neighbor's here.
operator: alright, can you talk to them instead?
caller: no, she's gone. my god, she's gone.
operator: okay, how old is she?
caller: oh my god. oh my god. oh my god.
operator: stay calm, okay? you said she's gone?
caller: yes, right through the center of the chest.
operator: so, the shot is in the chest?
caller: yes, right through the center.
operator: and you heard the shots when you walked in?
caller: no, i was outside. she told me to watch katie outside on the scooter.
operator: do you want to stay on the phone until help arrives?
caller: sure, if you do.
operator: alright, medic 16 is on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: if you think of anything else, just let me know, okay? where's the gun at now?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: okay. are you inside the residence?
caller: no, i'm outside.
operator: alright, you're outside. did you go in there right after you heard the shots?
caller: yes, i ran in and saw her laying on the floor. i put katie out of the house because i didn't want her to see.
operator: right. how old is katie?
caller: she's four.
operator: i understand. they just want to make sure the gun is put away because it's a crime scene. can you find her pager or cell phone?
caller: i'll look for it, okay?
operator: do you have your cell phone on you?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: alright, law enforcement is on the way. do you want to hang up?
caller: sure, okay. bye.
operator: bye, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at kuro tower downtown.
operator: where?
caller: kuro tower downtown.
operator: the mall, kuro tower downtown?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, so you're in kuro tower mall?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. and what's going on there?
caller: i was the one to rob the u.s. bank and i just need to be sure to turn myself in.
operator: okay. hold just a moment.
caller: uh-huh.
operator: where are you in the kuro tower mall?
caller: i'm right by humler and norland.
operator: by where?
caller: humler and norland. it's like a ceramic store.
operator: humler and norland?
caller: uh-huh. it's the unsold auction store.
operator: and you're inside the kuro tower mall?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: okay, are you white or black?
caller: i'm black.
operator: and how old are you?
caller: i'm 37.
operator: and your height and weight?
caller: 5-11, 200.
operator: and what color clothing are you wearing?
caller: i'm wearing a blue pea coat, tan pants, black shoes.
operator: okay. hold on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, it's 5181-berry lane. no, wait, c-i-a-a.
operator: okay. is your mom there?
caller: yeah, because the...
operator: they're on their way. honey, what's your name?
caller: hello?
operator: okay, it's two ladies and the husband. it's two ladies and what?
caller: have they been shot?
operator: he's coming out. please, there's a lot of time. he's coming, they're on their way. please hurry up.
caller: are they, are you guys safe?
operator: yeah, we're safe. the man, he's with his... well, he shot his daughter and his wife.
caller: how do you know that he shot both of them?
operator: because they're both bleeding and they're both crying.
caller: how did you see him?
operator: right now the little boy came to our house, knocked on the door and said, 'go to a house.' okay, they're on their way. i'm just trying to get some information. so a little boy came to your house and told you?
caller: yeah, the little boy.
operator: okay. all right. and is the guy drinking?
caller: i don't know. i'm not sure.
operator: okay. you need to stop crying. okay. we're on the way. and i have an ambulance on the way, too.
caller: okay.
operator: just make sure you stay inside and keep the doors locked. all right. bye-bye.
caller: excuse me?
operator: go ahead.
caller: we're in the house inside. the guy's come down, but we're in the house helping them.
operator: you're in the house?
caller: yeah, with us.
operator: okay, where's the guy?
caller: in there. he's in there?
operator: yeah, with him.
caller: with us, but he's all right. he calmed down, but he just... he's, like, helping them, but i don't know why he shot them.
operator: he shot one, and now he's helping her up?
caller: yeah. he shot both of them, and now he's helping them.
operator: and you can see that?
caller: they're bleeding a lot. they might... i don't know.
operator: okay. they've got a little kid.
caller: okay.
operator: they're on their way. all right?
caller: okay. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: leopold way in pittsburgh.
operator: i'm sorry, i didn't get the whole address. can you repeat it?
caller: 3309, leopold way.
operator: okay, are you calling from a cell phone?
caller: yes, a cell phone.
operator: and your name?
caller: okay, can you tell me exactly what happened?
scenario:fire
caller: i'm watching tv, and i heard five shots, and there's someone laying in my front yard. a woman's in a sheet. there's a guy, it looks like he's dead.
operator: i understand. can you tell approximately how old he is?
caller: i'm not going to open my window. i'm peeking through my curtains and the screen. it's dark, and it's hard to tell.
operator: that's fine. can you estimate his age?
caller: there were like four or five shots. by the time i turned the light off and came to the window, i don't know who did the shooting or what happened.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: i'm about 20 feet away and it's outside in the grass. i think the guy is dead.
operator: alright, i'm sending the ambulance now. just stay on the line.
operator: help is on the way. an ambulance and the police are on the way.
operator: just stay on the line with me here.
caller: there's a woman. i think maybe she's just naked in a white sheet.
caller: black lady. and there's another girl. i think she's got blonde hair.
operator: 999. what's the address?
operator: can you repeat the address for me?
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i don't know.
caller: come on. where is he shot?
caller: come on. i need somebody right now.
operator: i'll tell you exactly what to do, okay?
caller: come on. is he still breathing?
caller: where is he shot?
caller: come on. bring somebody.
operator: how old is he?
operator: is he awake?
caller: yes, my brother. is he awake?
operator: is the attacker still nearby?
caller: no.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: okay, what part of the body is injured?
caller: i don't know. bring them right now.
operator: is there more than one wound? how many times has he been shot?
caller: he's been shot, bring them, hurry now.
operator: i'll tell you exactly what to do next.
caller: fuck.
operator: did you see who shot him?
caller: yeah, i know who he is.
operator: okay, what was the guy's name?
caller: come on. bring the paramedics.
operator: they're on the way.
operator: is there an apartment number?
caller: yeah, bring the paramedics right now.
operator: what is the apartment number?
caller: i'm standing outside.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone with me until they get there.
caller: come on, come on.
caller: they're on the way.
operator: are you in the parking lot?
caller: i don't know where you live, man. you gotta help him.
operator: okay, just stay calm. help is on the way.
caller: something is wrong.
operator: 999. what's the address of the emergency?
caller: leopold way, 3308. someone came into my house and tried to attack me, and i had a pistol and i shot.
operator: and you're at 3308, you said? that's not a valid address.
caller: i mean, i can't. it's on leopold's way and todd drive.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: can you please send someone?
operator: yeah, i'll get officers on the way. what's your name?
caller: my name is perry lucas.
operator: stay on the line with me.
caller: okay. i'm just getting out of the way because these are thug-type people that came into my house, and when i took out a gun and...
operator: what apartment are you in?
caller: apartment number three.
operator: no, that's fine. i'll get you some help, okay? so you were attacked, and then you retaliated and shot them?
caller: yes.
caller: someone started acting crazy, and they attacked my girlfriend. i told them to leave. they didn't leave, and then they told me to leave. i told them i live here. then the guy ran at me, and i shot him.
operator: so you said the gun is unloaded and put away?
caller: yes, i separated the ammo from the gun.
operator: alright, where do you have the gun now?
caller: it’s tucked away in the plant holder inside.
operator: alright perry, i'm going to talk to the officers on the radio, okay?
caller: how long is this going to take? because i heard some sirens and i was hoping they were coming.
operator: perry, just stay with me. i'm talking directly to the cops.
operator: alright, can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: what’s going on?
caller: i hear voices, i hope that's them.
operator: perry, i'm just talking with the officers, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i was sleeping and i heard my doorbell ring.
operator: okay, do you believe that somebody's in your house right now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what do you hear?
caller: i heard creaking on my floor. first, i heard a bang.
operator: where are you at in your house? are you somewhere safe?
caller: i'm upstairs.
operator: was there supposed to be anybody in your house?
caller: no.
operator: okay. stay on the phone. i'm just getting some more information to send help. what exactly did you hear?
caller: i heard creaking across my floor.
operator: you heard somebody walking across the floor?
caller: yes.
operator: are you in the upper level of the house or on a main floor?
caller: i'm in the upper level.
operator: what do i hear in the background?
caller: it's my husband on my phone. he's telling me to lock the bedroom door.
operator: did you lock your bedroom door?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, what do you hear now? do you hear anything at all?
caller: no, i haven't heard anything else.
operator: do you have any pets in your house?
caller: yes, i have a dog, but she's new and she's real skittish. she doesn’t usually bark much.
operator: where is she now?
caller: she's with me.
operator: so your dog is with you and sitting still?
caller: yes.
operator: and you have your husband on a cell phone as well?
caller: yes, my cell phone.
operator: do you have any kids that would come home during this time?
caller: no, i don't think so. my son has a full day of school today. my little one needs to be picked up later.
operator: okay. you said you heard your doorbell, a knock, and then a bang?
caller: yes, i heard the doorbell, then a knock, and then a loud thud.
operator: alright, we have help on the way. stay on the line with me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, all your doctors? because my mom's on the floor, we think, and i can't wake her up.
operator: how old is your mommy?
caller: um, i don't know, but she's not waking up.
caller: i always try to wake her up and the baby is crying.
caller: i was crying my head off.
operator: okay, can you do me a favor, sweetie? is your mom on her stomach or her back?
caller: i don't know.
operator: when you look at your mommy, is she laying on her stomach?
caller: no, she's laying on her side.
operator: okay, can you roll her flat on her back? can you push her over?
caller: no, she's too big. but are you a doctor?
operator: no, but honey, i am going to get someone out to you. i want you to stay on the phone with me.
operator: how long has your mommy been sleeping?
caller: i don't know. she just stayed like this. i was trying to get her up and the baby is crying. i don't know how to make... um... i tried calling somebody, but they didn't answer.
operator: okay. so she's been like that for a couple of hours?
caller: yeah.
operator: is that your baby brother or sister?
caller: yeah. i can't make him a bottle. i don't know how.
operator: okay, you can't make him a bottle. how old is your brother or sister?
caller: oh, my sister's not here. she's at my dad's and the baby is two weeks old.
operator: the baby is two weeks old?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, sweetie. what's the bottle look like? do you know where the bottles are?
caller: i know where one bottle is, but can you really hear me? the baby's crying.
operator: i can hear you, sweetie. i can hear you really good. you're doing a great job. does your baby brother take a baby bottle or a pacifier?
caller: we have cereal for him and i was trying to make the cereal, but i don't know how. the box is not open.
operator: okay, okay, you're doing great. is your baby brother in a little sling, or is he laying in a crib?
caller: no, he's in his little chair.
operator: in his little chair? is it a bouncy chair?
caller: yes, but i was trying to wake her up. i'm so tired. i'm afraid we stayed up all night.
operator: oh, honey, you're not going to stay up all night. we're going to get someone to help you. you're being so brave right now. i'm so proud of you. how old are you?
caller: five.
operator: five. you are doing great. what's your name?
caller: austin.
operator: austin, you are being a great helper. do you like your new baby brother?
caller: yes.
operator: what's his name?
caller: um, his name is aiden.
operator: baby aiden?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you show me what the bottle looks like because your mom's not waking up somehow?
caller: okay, that's fine. you can take the phone with you. tell me what the bottle looks like.
caller: it has stuff in it, but it has the stuff in it. it has the formula, and i was shaking it, but somehow the lid didn't close.
operator: is there water in the bottle with the formula?
caller: yeah, you have to put it in. that's how you make it.
operator: you are very smart. that is how we make bottles. did you twist the top on all the way?
caller: yeah, but when i was shaking it, it didn't mix.
operator: it's okay. sometimes it takes a little longer. if it's twisted on right, with the little eating part you suck out of, we can shake it again together. we'll shake together.
caller: okay.
operator: are you shaking it now?
caller: no, i don't have it right now.
operator: can you take the phone with you? we want to try and help baby aiden.
caller: this is a house phone, but i can't bring the whole phone.
operator: okay, okay, can you set the phone down and go get the bottle and come back?
caller: okay.
caller: okay, i'm back.
operator: okay, i'm still here, honey. did you get the bottle?
caller: yeah, i have it.
operator: okay, does it look more like formula now?
caller: no, there's still formula at the bottom.
operator: okay, well let's shake it really hard.
caller: i'm shaking it.
operator: you are doing good. sometimes the formula likes to get stuck.
caller: i was watching a movie and i told her to get up and she didn't. she's done this two or three times already.
operator: you're doing so good. i'm so proud of you. i'm sure your mommy is proud of you too for being such a good help.
caller: i'm trying to wake her up. she's not waking up.
operator: okay. if you put your hand in front of her nose or her mouth, can you feel any breath?
caller: okay, i'll do that. hold on.
caller: i don't know because there's a new phone and i don't know if she's breathing.
operator: okay. does she have any red stuff by her body?
caller: no.
operator: no blood? do you know what blood looks like?
caller: i know it's red.
operator: okay. you don't see any of that?
caller: no.
operator: okay. all right. well, we're doing good. how's that bottle looking?
caller: it still has formula at the bottom. i'll try to shake it when you come because i'm trying to make him one and it's not working.
operator: okay, that's all right. if we shake it up, does it have enough liquid so he can get some milk maybe?
caller: i think my mom put too much and that's why it's not working, i think.
operator: oh, okay. well, can we just try and dump a little bit out so we can give him a little bit?
caller: hold on. set the phone down.
caller: it's probably the paramedics. set the phone down and get the door. do you see fire trucks?
caller: okay. my mom's laying on the floor.
caller: they're in the kitchen now.
caller: no, i'm just scared because the door is right there.
caller: my phone is ringing. my phone is ringing.
operator: okay. hey, austin?
caller: yeah.
operator: help is on the way, okay? they're going to help you.
operator: say hi.
caller: okay.
caller: hello. they're here.
operator: is there someone with you? can you show them the bottle? maybe they can make it for your brother?
caller: yeah, he is right now. he's making the bottle.
operator: okay. all right. they're going to help you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: all right. bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's an armed robbery going on right now. i've been shot in the back and i'm bleeding.
operator: you've been shot in the back? stay on the phone with me. is the person still there?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. male or female?
caller: male.
operator: what race?
caller: i think he's hispanic.
operator: male hispanic. what color shirt is he wearing?
caller: i don't know. i'm not looking.
operator: is he wearing a mask?
caller: yes.
operator: is it a black mask?
caller: yes.
operator: is he still inside?
caller: yes, i think.
operator: just stay on the phone with me. do not hang up. can you see him and does he know that you're on the phone?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, just be quiet then. i'll ask you yes or no questions, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: the person who shot you, where is he?
caller: i don't know. i think he left.
operator: the robber left or the guy who was shot?
caller: i think the robber left out the back door.
operator: okay, lock the doors. did you get a description from anyone who saw him?
caller: they ran. there were two of them.
operator: there were two? were they both wearing masks?
caller: yes.
operator: two suspects, both wearing masks, took off out the back door on foot. don't hang up with me. where's the person who was shot?
caller: he's outside.
operator: is that a customer or a robber?
caller: no, he's my manager.
operator: okay, i'm going to give you some instructions to help him, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: get a clean cloth and apply direct pressure to the wound. do you understand?
caller: yes, i understand.
operator: two victims, one inside and one out back. can you tell me the condition of the person outside?
caller: i have no clue.
operator: what color shirts were the suspects wearing?
caller: one was in a blue shirt, and the other was in a dark green shirt.
operator: how about pants?
caller: the one in the blue shirt had camouflage pants.
scenario:fire
operator: okay, so blue shirt with camouflage pants. the one in the green shirt?
caller: he had tan shorts and shaggy hair.
operator: okay, you're doing great. just stay with me. a police officer is on their way. let me know when they get there.
caller: a police lady is already here.
operator: okay, until she starts talking to you, keep talking to me. are the suspects both hispanic?
caller: yeah, they both looked hispanic or black, i'm not sure. they were wearing masks.
operator: alright, we have help on the way. you can talk to the officers now.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: get emt over here.
operator: what's the location of the emergency?
caller: someone's been shot 1220 telegraph avenue.
operator: 1220 telegraph avenue?
caller: yes, 1220 telegraph avenue.
operator: and someone was shot?
caller: yes.
operator: who's been shot?
caller: my wife. please come over now.
operator: your wife has been shot?
caller: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's brian sessons at 701 buckford circle, and he is trying to wrestle his way into my house.
operator: where's he at now, ma'am?
caller: he's outside my house, ringing my doorbell.
operator: is the door locked?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, ma'am. who is he to you?
caller: he's just a friend.
operator: why is he trying to get in so bad?
caller: his girlfriend is in here.
operator: his girlfriend is in there? okay. have they been fighting?
caller: yes. we made her go upstairs and lock the door.
operator: that's fine. just make sure you keep everybody inside.
caller: okay.
operator: we have officers coming to you. make sure he's not trying to break the door in.
caller: all right.
operator: is he intoxicated?
caller: yes, he is.
operator: ma'am, we need to calm down, okay? we've got somebody coming to you. they’ll be there as soon as they can. do you still see him or hear him?
caller: i don't hear him. i don't want to walk away from the door because i'm holding it.
operator: all right. if he comes back to the door, call me right back, but you do have an officer en route to you, okay?
caller: thank you.
operator: 999, do you need to do cpr?
caller: yes. brian is at my house.
operator: okay, he's broken into the house now?
caller: my husband has shot him in self-defense because he's...
operator: your husband shot him?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, ma'am, ma'am. is he breathing at all?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, can you go check for me real quick?
caller: yes.
operator: ma'am?
caller: yes.
operator: do you need to give cpr?
caller: yes.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: yes, he's breathing.
operator: where's he bleeding from?
caller: his stomach.
operator: all right, is he bleeding heavily from the front or the back?
caller: the front.
operator: okay, keep pressure on it, okay? what are you using to apply pressure?
caller: a blanket.
operator: all right. where's the gun?
caller: it's on the table.
operator: where's your husband?
caller: he's right here holding pressure on him.
operator: is he the one that shot him?
caller: yes.
operator: what's his name?
caller: ben harriet.
operator: spell it.
caller: h-a-r-r-i-o-t-t.
operator: what's his first name?
caller: joseph benjamin harriet.
operator: okay, listen to me, okay? why did you shoot him? did he try to get into the home?
caller: yes, he broke into our house, and then he was running after us.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: sarah bunting.
operator: all right, is he still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: ma'am, listen, i've got everybody coming. you need to answer my questions, okay? keep pressure on him, okay? you said the gun's on the table, right?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, keep talking to him. they're coming to help you. is he still breathing okay?
caller: yes, he's trying to move.
operator: just keep pressure on his stomach. is he bleeding a lot or just a little?
caller: he's bleeding enough to fight.
operator: okay. is it heavy bleeding?
caller: i can't tell. he won't keep the rag on him.
operator: okay, once you pack that rag on him, don't lift it. put another one on top if it bleeds through, okay?
caller: okay, he doesn't want it.
operator: okay, if it bleeds through, replace it. was it a small caliber gun?
caller: ma'am, i have no idea. there are all kinds of people outside.
operator: all right, ma'am, i have an officer on site. you need to let them in the house. is the door open?
caller: yes, i have the door open.
operator: thank you, ma'am.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, this is danelle dash. i live over here by carquest.
operator: okay.
caller: it sounds like gunshots are being fired.
operator: okay. do you know where they are coming from?
caller: no, it was two different sets. the first set went off, and now we just heard the second set.
operator: what is your address?
caller: 104.
caller: the man ran past pac-man's house.
operator: did he have a gun? can you see what he had?
caller: no, he just ran past.
operator: what is your name, ma'am?
caller: danelle dashlet. d-o-n-n-e-l-l.
operator: i have danelle dashlet on the phone. she believes she heard gunshots near carquest and saw a man run past pac-man's house.
caller: a pickup truck just went down hazeldale at high speed.
operator: okay.
caller: mr. bob, get the kids down! my car's been shot. i had 3-23 rounds, came 7 meters from my head. they went through my squad. he is shooting down!
operator: ma'am, can i put you on hold for a second?
caller: yes.
caller: hey, cullen, fuller's calling 999. shots are being fired, one went past my head and through my squad.
operator: i'm going to put you on hold, ma'am.
caller: okay.
operator: we need units in the pad now!
caller: your call has been forwarded to an automatic voice message system.
operator: can you see what's going on?
caller: no, somebody in a black toyota tundra just peeled out of here.
operator: did you get a license number?
caller: no, we are inside the house.
operator: which way did it go?
caller: it went down hazeldale towards tyler's ripper stand.
operator: okay, i'll put you back on hold again.
operator: all units, be advised, we have a report of a black toyota tundra leaving hazeldale area at high speed heading towards tyler's drive-in after shots were fired.
operator: can you hear anything else?
caller: no, it's been quiet here.
operator: okay, thank you.
caller: there's someone standing on the porch at hazeldale on the shooting.
operator: do they have a gun?
caller: i can't tell, i'm at 206, it's kitty corner.
operator: do you know who it is?
caller: no, but there are two native americans that live on the lower level. i'm not saying it's them. a black chevy pickup left the suburban there.
operator: did it leave at a high rate of speed?
caller: yes, it did.
operator: thank you, stay away from your windows.
caller: we will.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, we have a shooting outside our apartment building.
operator: what's the address, ma'am?
caller: behind trisha's treasures at 107 north lake ave. someone is sobbing and they need an ambulance.
operator: isn't that near the post office and city police?
caller: yes.
operator: what is your name?
caller: april aubrey. we're in our apartment with the doors locked, looking out the window.
operator: stay away from the windows, april. an ambulance is on its way.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know if it's cops or not, but someone's walking down the street with a rifle on hazeldale.
operator: can you tell if it's an officer?
caller: no, i can't.
operator: okay, thank you. we'll send someone to check it.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: my name is robert dashlett. my wife called earlier about the pickup truck.
operator: yes, we had many calls coming in at that time.
caller: do you need a description? it was a navy blue chevy with a silver toolbox behind the cab.
operator: thank you. we have officers in the area.
caller: okay. there were around 20 shots fired, i think.
operator: thank you, robert.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: this is elder pagel. is it safe for my family? we've got a lot of people here and just want to be sure.
operator: elder, we recommend that everyone stays inside and uses their best judgment. we cannot release more information right now.
caller: all right. thank you.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, a friend of mine said they saw tyler driving a black chevy with a silver toolbox on p near argonne.
operator: do you know which way he was heading?
caller: no, only that it was near bud isens' place on p.
operator: thank you, we'll notify the officers.
operator: forest county 999, may i help you?
caller: this is special agent jody wormick from dci. you can disregard the request for ems or metflight. the subject is down.
operator: thank you.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: this is donna dashlet. we are up here on county n. with all this commotion, should we evacuate our home?
operator: we haven't received any evacuation orders. if you don't feel safe, you may leave, but there might be road closures.
caller: okay, thank you. please keep us updated if anything changes.
operator: we'll do our best. stay safe.
operator: forest county 999, what's your emergency?
caller: this is phil mccorkal. my granddaughter katrina was involved in the shooting this morning. her car is now out here on stetsney lane. i don't know if the suspect is nearby.
operator: okay, we'll inform the officers. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, police.
operator: this is the police. how may i help you?
caller: i'm calling because i'm at a park and my son is missing.
operator: what park are you at, ma'am?
caller: i'm at a park by 820th on shaker.
operator: how old is your son?
caller: three.
operator: okay. you said east 120th?
caller: yes.
operator: what's the name of the park, ma'am?
caller: east 120th and shaker boulevard don't cross. it's cousins park.
operator: cousins park?
caller: yes, cousins park.
operator: can you spell the name you see on the sign for me, ma'am?
caller: k-o-s-s-u-t-h.
operator: ma'am, what is your name?
caller: camellia terry.
operator: terry? camellia terry.
caller: yes, camellia terry.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: [number redacted]
operator: okay, ma'am, i've sent a call down for the police to respond. your son, what is he wearing?
caller: he is wearing a red and black sweater with some blue jeans. he has black and blue tennis shoes and a gray coat.
operator: okay, how long has it been since you last saw him?
caller: fifteen minutes ago. i've looked everywhere and i can't find him.
operator: is he light-skinned or dark-skinned?
caller: he is brown-skinned.
operator: what about his hair?
caller: his hair is brown.
operator: is it braided or a low haircut?
caller: it's a low haircut.
operator: does he have any scars or birthmarks that are visible?
caller: no.
operator: okay. i want you to stay right there at the park, okay?
caller: yeah.
operator: was there anyone else around when you last saw him?
caller: no, it's just me and my two other kids.
operator: okay, the police are on their way to you, ma'am, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just broke into our house. they're trying to break into my bedroom.
operator: what's your address?
caller: 3719 north east 64th avenue.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about 20 seconds ago.
operator: is he still in the house?
caller: i don't know. i'm pointing a gun at the door in case someone comes through it.
operator: how did they try to get in?
caller: i don't know. i was asleep. my dog started barking.
operator: okay, you said someone tried to break into your house. through what door or window?
caller: he's trying to break through my door.
operator: is he still outside now?
caller: he's in my house trying to break into my bedroom.
operator: do you know who it is?
caller: no, i don't.
operator: listen to me, my partner is getting officers on the way. stay calm and stay in the room, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: he's trying to kick the door in. tell him that police are on the way and he needs to leave.
caller: cops are on the way, you need to leave!
operator: what type of gun are you armed with?
caller: a .22 caliber handgun.
operator: and you have no idea who it is, correct?
caller: i've never seen this guy before in my life.
caller: he's on my bedroom floor bleeding.
operator: okay, we are sending an ambulance. is he inside your bedroom now?
caller: yes, right here.
operator: did you shoot him?
caller: i did. he charged at me and my wife.
operator: where did you shoot him?
caller: in the body.
operator: we're getting medical help started as well. is he still conscious?
scenario:robbery
caller: i don't know. i'm not going near him.
operator: is your front door unlocked?
caller: i don't know.
operator: can you have your wife go unlock the front door?
caller: she's going now.
operator: after the front door is unlocked, secure the dog.
caller: my wife is locking up the dog now.
operator: where did you secure the weapon?
caller: it's in the kitchen, and he's in my bedroom.
operator: okay, unload your gun.
caller: it's unloaded, the chamber is empty.
operator: leave the gun on the kitchen table and go outside with your wife.
caller: alright, we're going outside.
operator: do you see my officers?
caller: yes, but they're down the block.
operator: stop walking and stand at your front door. wait for the officers to give you instructions.
caller: alright, we're waiting.
operator: is your wife still with you?
caller: yes, she just walked out.
operator: both of you just stay there and wait for the officers.
caller: okay, we're in our driveway now.
operator: were there any other guns in the bedroom that he could access?
caller: no, there aren't.
operator: put the gun on the ground and follow the officer's commands.
caller: okay, doing that now.
operator: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hang on.
caller: they're okay?
operator: we're just about out there. are they just about here?
caller: you sure you see us?
operator: yeah, they see you. they've got your location pinpointed.
caller: keith.
caller: keith.
operator: you okay?
caller: cram!
caller: ah!
operator: you okay?
operator: okay, keith?
caller: yeah. we're cramping up bad.
operator: are you on a sandbar, keith?
caller: yeah, we're on something. trying to make a stand.
operator: i see debris. we're here.
caller: at least they got a trail to you.
operator: they've got a trail to you if you're leaving debris.
caller: they're in the drink. they're in the drink. they're coming.
caller: they see us, otis, they're coming.
operator: how's otis doing, keith?
caller: he's rough. he's rough.
operator: do you have the lifejackets?
caller: yeah, he's hanging on. but it's rough.
operator: they're coming, they're on their way. it's only a matter of minutes.
operator: you have to maintain your calm. you have two choices: live or die, and you're going to live.
operator: you're still with us, right?
caller: we're here, keith.
caller: i took a tail off for this.
operator: you guys fishing or hunting, keith?
caller: hunting?
operator: that's a nice duck.
operator: they're on their way. they're coming any minute.
caller: i don't see you. you are in the water, right?
caller: they're in the water coming in.
operator: don't let go of that jacket. hang on as tight as you can.
caller: we don't see the rest. five nice mallards!
operator: the sheriff's boat is in the water. is there anything left with you, keith, other than that gas can?
caller: we've got a blue jacket. we lost the gas can.
caller: lost the decoys.
operator: is your boat under too?
caller: yeah, they see us. they're coming.
operator: calm down. they'll get you out of this.
operator: they're right behind you.
operator: you're not going to drown. i promise.
operator: just hang on a few more minutes.
caller: it's almost over, okay?
operator: keep talking to them.
caller: it's over, and we're going to live.
caller: okay? hang on. grab on.
caller: i'm going to try to stand right here. we're making a stand now. god willing, we get out.
operator: are you still on the end of the tree line? you're fine. i'm not going to let you go.
operator: keith, are you still on the end of the tree line?
caller: just hang on. we're not moving, and we're not going anywhere.
operator: are you still off the end of the tree line?
caller: yeah, we can see it.
operator: so, you're a little south of the tree line now?
caller: about even with it.
operator: you're on the south end of the lake, right?
caller: well, south of the dock.
operator: do you see any houses looking straight ahead?
operator: are they on the east side or the west side of the lake?
caller: we're on the east side.
caller: you see the farmhouse on the south side of the tree line with the dog.
operator: southside with the farmhouse?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you see it?
caller: even with the farm, hang on!
operator: is there anything outstanding about that farm? a couple silos, blue house, anything?
caller: one you can see.
caller: no, you have to, please, hurry!
operator: we're here, keith.
operator: do you see the boat coming?
caller: have the boat right over there?
operator: do you see the boat, keith?
caller: i see something.
caller: you're like so straight to walk right over.
operator: which way are they from you?
caller: they're north.
operator: okay, we'll keep heading them that way.
operator: your spotters still see them?
caller: okay.
operator: hang on to that.
caller: 100 yards north of them. tell them to keep going.
operator: don't get too crazy, keith. save something for the tank.
caller: two guys in a boat.
operator: can you see a boat on your right?
caller: yeah, they see two guys in a boat.
operator: which direction do they need to go to get to you? keith, which way are they?
caller: northwest of you. they need to come southeast.
operator: do you see them, keith?
caller: i see them.
operator: they got to come closer to you. they're going to get there soon.
operator: are they still coming toward you?
operator: have your spotters still got them in sight?
caller: yes, they see them.
operator: okay, are they guiding the boat in now?
operator: hang on, keith. dig deep for me.
operator: they see you, keith.
caller: hang on, buddy.
operator: stay with us until you're in the boat. i want to hear that you're safe.
caller: he can't swim!
operator: stay there. stay there.
caller: okay.
operator: i tried to get a hold of bob and corey. i didn't have any luck, but we'll keep trying.
caller: okay, sounds good.
operator: nice job. we need to get them out of there.
operator: thank you.
caller: you bet. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, yes, i need an ambulance.
operator: what is the address of the emergency?
caller: um, i'm on hardstone, in rhode.
operator: okay, tell me what's happening there.
caller: um, my friend is passed out and he's not waking up at all.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's 12.
operator: what caused him to pass out?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: um, he's coughing up orange stuff over and over and he won't wake up at all.
operator: did he take any medication?
caller: no.
operator: okay. and you don't know what he was doing prior to this happening?
caller: hold on one second.
operator: i have help on the way. don't hang up, okay?
caller: alright.
operator: is he foaming at the mouth?
caller: yeah, he's foaming at the mouth.
operator: okay, is he breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: what's he doing?
caller: he's lying on his back, coughing really bad, so we put him on his side.
operator: did he take an overdose? can you tell me what happened when you found him?
caller: no, he wasn't on the floor. he was just sleeping. he was coughing really bad, so we went in there.
operator: was he sick before today?
caller: no.
operator: okay. well, we have help on the way. don't give him anything to eat or drink; it might make him sick or cause problems for the doctor, okay?
caller: that's the thing. he won't wake up.
operator: but he is breathing, though?
caller: yeah.
operator: how do you know he's breathing?
caller: because he's coughing, and you can see his chest moving.
operator: okay, i just want to make sure that he's breathing. if he's not breathing, then i need to stay on the phone with you. as long as he's breathing, we can wait for help to arrive. is he still breathing now?
caller: yeah, he's breathing.
operator: you can see his chest rising and falling normally, right?
caller: yes.
operator: so you just heard him coughing, and then you went into the room and he was passed out?
caller: yeah.
operator: they're on the way. i'm not stopping them from coming. is there anything else that's happening right now?
caller: i have to roll him over on his side. his mom can't do it.
operator: okay. is his mom okay?
caller: yeah, she's fine.
operator: okay. hold on one second. don't hang up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: listen, we're bleeding really bad.
operator: okay. you got attacked by people, correct?
caller: yes, help, help, help.
operator: okay, ma'am, who attacked you?
caller: someone came in and stabbed my mom.
operator: somebody came in and stabbed your mom?
caller: yes, they stabbed my mom and dad.
operator: okay, does your mom and dad need medical attention?
caller: yes, absolutely. we need an ambulance there now.
operator: do you know where the person is that attacked your parents?
caller: no, you need to come now.
operator: okay, my partner is dispatching help to you now, okay?
caller: okay, okay.
operator: and so you said it's both of your parents, correct?
caller: yes, both of my parents.
caller: my dad has lacerations to the abdominal area.
operator: jeff, i'm listening to you. just explain to me what's happening.
caller: my mom and dad both have been stabbed.
operator: you're in yale, michigan?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, hold on one second, we're getting you help.
operator: jeff, are both of your parents awake?
caller: my dad is saying he can't breathe.
operator: is that your dad saying he can't breathe?
caller: yes.
operator: and your mom, is she awake?
caller: she's upstairs, i'm not sure.
operator: i can hear your dad calling for help. is your mom awake?
caller: yes, my mom is stabbed as well.
operator: okay, but is your mother awake and conscious as well?
caller: yes, both of them are.
operator: do you know where the person is that stabbed your parents?
caller: i do not know.
operator: is anybody else there with you besides you and your parents?
caller: my brother is here.
operator: were you in the house when this happened?
caller: yes, i was in the basement and my brother ran upstairs when we heard something.
operator: okay, and your brother's name is jeff?
caller: yes.
operator: what is your name?
caller: tia skinner.
operator: what's your callback number, tia?
caller: i'm not sure, i'm on my mom's phone.
operator: okay, just stay on the line with me.
operator: do you know where the weapon is that was used?
caller: no, my brother and i were downstairs, and then i heard people yelling upstairs.
caller: i told my brother to go upstairs because i heard screaming.
operator: so you told your brother to go upstairs and help when you heard screaming?
caller: yes, and then he called you and had the phone to me.
operator: are you still in the basement?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know any injuries or anything that's wrong with your mother?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: just stay on the line with me. you're doing great.
operator: can you tell me what you heard when you were in the basement?
caller: i heard yelling and then footsteps running down the stairs.
caller: then my dad came down yelling for help.
operator: and you did not see anything that happened?
caller: no, because we were both in the basement.
operator: do you know who was in the house with your parents?
caller: no, nobody was supposed to be in the house.
operator: what are your parents' names?
caller: mara and paul skinner.
operator: okay, there should be an officer on location. i want you to stay on the phone with me until you see the officer, okay?
caller: okay, my neighbor is here too.
operator: your neighbor came down to the basement?
caller: yes, i think he's calling someone right now.
operator: can you give the phone to your neighbor? do they have any information?
caller: no, he's on another phone.
operator: okay, just stay with me. we have help on the way.
operator: do you know where the person went who attacked your parents?
caller: no, i just heard the yelling and then my brother ran upstairs.
operator: okay, we're going to stay on the line with you until help arrives.
operator: thank you for calling 9-9-9. we're going to stay right here with you.
scenario:traffic
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i need police at, uh... where the heck am i? 291 watertown street immediately. we just had bullets fired.
operator: who shot?
caller: i don't know. someone out the window.
operator: out the window of what?
caller: out the window of the shop.
operator: all right. do you need an ambulance, too?
caller: yes, potential hit. shots fired! shots fired. 291 watertown street.
operator: all right. stay on the line with me. they're on the way. what happened there? who was shot?
caller: i don't know. i just heard banging.
operator: are you in the building?
caller: i am in the building. i work here. there are bullets all over the place. i do have a weapon on me. i have not fired.
operator: how many people are in the building?
caller: no one's firing now. i don't see anyone hurt, but i have two people here. two women are with me here.
operator: do you know how many people are in the building total?
caller: there's three on the jewelry side, where the shooting came from, and then i don't know who's on the other side.
operator: you're in christophori jewelry?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: all right. i'm going to stay on the line with you until they get there. are you guys in a safe spot?
caller: i don't know. i don't think so. they shot right through the window.
operator: from inside or outside?
caller: from outside. from the outside.
operator: are you with the other two people, sir?
caller: yes, i am. they're both talking.
operator: and you didn't see who shot?
caller: no, but i have cameras here.
operator: did you see anyone else in the area before this happened?
caller: no, there was a suspicious individual here earlier, but...
operator: all right. tell me when they get there.
caller: okay, i can hear them coming.
operator: i can hear them, too, but i'm not going to hang up until you're actually with them, okay?
caller: here's the police. can you please check her, please?
operator: is that an officer, sir?
caller: yes, there's an officer here.
operator: okay, can i call my other partner? he's in another location.
caller: yes, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is gifford. hello? hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's been a shooting at safeway.
operator: okay, what do you mean? where specifically is this?
caller: in oracle, where gabrielle giffords was.
operator: alright, was somebody shot?
caller: yes, a guy with a semi-automatic pistol started firing and then he ran.
operator: which way did he run?
caller: he ran north past the walgreens next to the safeway.
operator: can you describe him? what was he wearing?
caller: he was wearing a black hoodie and blue jeans.
operator: is anybody injured? did you say gabrielle giffords was hit?
caller: yes, she's hit. she's still breathing, has a pulse. we have two people down, one dead.
operator: and there are other people injured?
caller: yes, multiple people shot.
operator: alright, is the shooter white, black, hispanic?
caller: he's white, probably in his 20s or 30s. i didn't see his hair color because he had a beanie on.
operator: okay, we have help coming. what is your name, sir?
caller: my name is manuel hernandez.
operator: are you an employee at safeway?
caller: no, i work for a separate company as a merchandiser. i was outside putting up product when i saw this through the window.
operator: okay, thank you, sir. we believe we have someone detained. i'm going to answer other 999 calls now. thank you for your help.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm at the wells fargo and someone said there's a shooting at safeway.
operator: yes, we have reports of that. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, it's the safeway on oracle and... you know.
operator: yes, we have reports of that. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at oracle safeway. there's been shots fired.
operator: yes, we have reports of that. deputies are on the way. thank you.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at oracle and the safeway shopping center.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: i believe there's a shooting outside the front of the safeway.
operator: did you witness it?
caller: we heard the gunshots. i'm in the great clips at the corner, and we heard quite a few shots.
operator: did you see anything?
caller: people were running around the street. we didn't see much else.
operator: okay, we have deputies on the way. stay inside and stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i'm at 7130.
operator: is this about the shooting?
caller: yes.
operator: did you see anything?
caller: no, someone else told me to call.
operator: did they see anything?
caller: no, they only heard it.
operator: okay, we have deputies on the way. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: is this about the shooting?
operator: yes. did anyone see anything or just hear it?
caller: i'm in the back of the pharmacy, so no.
operator: okay, we have deputies on the way. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, we have a lady having a panic attack. we're at 421 west elm road.
operator: did she witness anything?
caller: i don't know, she just ran over here.
operator: one moment, i'll get you to medical dispatch.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency? are you reporting the shooting?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: did you witness it? what is your name?
caller: i did, my name is emma mcmahon.
operator: what did you witness?
caller: i heard gunshots and saw a man shooting. people tackled him and took away his gun.
operator: okay, we have deputies on the way. stay where you are and try to get others to safety.
caller: i'm in the walgreens, in the back.
operator: good, stay safe. we're sending ambulances too.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency? are you reporting the shooting?
caller: yes.
operator: did you witness it?
caller: i did not.
operator: do you have anyone there who did?
caller: i'm asking a customer now.
caller: no, she didn't see it, she just heard it.
operator: okay, deputies are on the way. stay where you are and stay safe.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency? are you reporting the shooting?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: did you witness it?
caller: i was in the store. i saw a man down, that's all.
operator: okay, we have deputies and medical on the way. stay safe.
caller: okay, we're in the back of the store.
operator: good, stay put until help arrives.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: hello, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i have to report an emergency.
operator: what is your emergency?
caller: my guardian got into an argument and there was a shot fired at 634 gauge avenue.
operator: okay, where's your friend, the one that got shot?
caller: that's my father. he's in the house, okay? it wasn't my mom's fault. she was defending herself.
operator: so your mom shot your father, is that what you're saying?
caller: yes.
operator: where's your mom at?
caller: she's upstairs. she's crying. i told her.
operator: okay, that's fine. where's the gun?
caller: the gun is on the floor upstairs.
operator: okay. please stay on the line. what apartment are you in?
caller: the cops are here. can you please hurry?
operator: can you step outside?
caller: i will. the cops are already here. please hurry.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: help me, help me quick.
operator: what's the address?
caller: i live on the courtyards. arlington on the pond and i go into the lake.
operator: what is your address?
caller: 1538 court.
caller: but i drove through and i'm in the lake.
caller: hurry up, i'm sinking. hurry up.
operator: sir, sir, i need you to calm down.
operator: 1538 court?
caller: yes. i'm in the lake.
operator: sir, i understand. i'm getting you help.
operator: so you drove into the lake?
caller: i'm in the lake.
operator: okay. sir, sir, i'm getting you help, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: they're on the way.
operator: sir, they're on the way to help you.
caller: hurry up.
operator: sir, they're on the way.
operator: are you in the car?
caller: yeah, i'm in the car.
operator: okay, what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in a brand-new cadillac.
operator: you're in a brand-new cadillac, okay.
caller: no.
operator: all right.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my wife fell asleep in the bathtub and i think she's dead.
operator: what's the address?
caller: yes, morrow, ohio.
operator: what's going on?
caller: she fell asleep in the bathtub, i think i was downstairs. i just came up here and she was laying face down in the bathtub.
operator: in the water?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 24.
operator: she's in the bathroom?
caller: yes, the water's draining right now.
caller: i tried to do it. everything, i could. i tried it.
operator: so you took her out of the water now?
caller: yeah, yes. the water is completely drained, but she's just laying here unconscious.
operator: is she still in the bathtub?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: okay, so we drain the water out of the tub.
caller: yes.
operator: how long was she in the bathtub?
caller: i had, she was in here for at least, i had 15 minutes, half an hour somewhere in there, i was out there watching tv.
caller: she falls asleep in the tub all the time.
operator: and how are you related to her? are you her mother or?
caller: i'm her husband.
operator: husband?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name?
caller: ryan whitmer.
operator: can you spell your name for me, ryan?
caller: w-i-t-m-e-r.
operator: have you tried cpr?
caller: yes, as much as i could, what little bit i know.
caller: is somebody coming?
operator: yeah, they're already on the way, ryan.
operator: there's no way you can get her out of the bathtub?
caller: i can try, but i have to set the phone down.
operator: okay. if you’re able to get her out of the bathtub and onto a flat surface.
caller: okay, i'm dropping the phone.
caller: she's on a flat surface.
operator: what's that?
caller: she's on a flat surface now.
operator: go ahead and start cpr. help is on the way, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are your doors unlocked?
caller: no.
operator: okay, you need to run and unlock the doors so that they can get in, and then come back.
caller: okay, they're unlocked now.
operator: are you upstairs?
caller: yes, we're upstairs.
operator: do you have more than one bathroom in the house?
caller: no, there are two, but we're upstairs in the only one that’s being used.
operator: ryan, go ahead and put the phone down and continue cpr, okay?
caller: yes, i am. come on, come on!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: this is maria sanchez, 9-9-9 communications record custodian. i have a situation to report from the miami beach area.
operator: can you provide more details about the situation?
caller: the incident occurred on august 6, 2013, around 5:13:32 am. it involves a suspect who was last seen running southbound on collins avenue from 71st street.
operator: can you describe the suspect?
caller: the suspect is a 6'1" mulatto male, wearing a cream-colored shirt and white dreadlocks.
operator: understood. are there any units currently responding to this?
caller: yes, units are in pursuit. the suspect was last seen running southbound past the 7000 block of collins.
operator: alright, is there a containment perimeter setup for this suspect?
caller: not at this time. the officers are currently canvassing the area.
operator: please advise if you need additional support or units.
caller: we may need additional units to set up a perimeter if the suspect is not located soon.
operator: understood. i'll dispatch additional units to assist in setting up a perimeter. do you have any updates on the suspect's movements?
caller: the suspect was seen again at 6940 harding avenue, heading northbound.
operator: copy that. units have been directed to harding avenue. is there a specific location we should focus on?
caller: focus on the city national bank's rear parking lot. the suspect just jumped a fence there.
operator: roger. units will concentrate on the rear parking lot of city national bank. any further updates?
caller: the suspect is now in custody at 71st street and harding.
operator: understood. is medical assistance required?
caller: yes, the suspect might be having a seizure. requesting fire rescue on a code 3.
operator: copy that. dispatching fire rescue to 71st street and harding.
caller: fire rescue is en route. eta is 6-7 minutes.
operator: acknowledged. please notify us once they have arrived.
caller: fire rescue has arrived and is attending to the suspect.
operator: roger that. any further assistance required at this moment?
caller: no, we're all set. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe out there.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: huh?
operator: 9-9-9, location of your emergency.
caller: 1880 springview.
scenario:domestic
operator: 1880 springview?
caller: yes.
operator: what's the telephone number you're calling from, ma'am?
operator: and what's the problem?
operator: so exactly what happened?
caller: well, we just found the body, a body of a baby, my grandson.
operator: you just found your grandson?
caller: yes, he's dead.
operator: okay, i'm showing you calling from 1852 spring drive. is that where you're at?
caller: oh, well, yeah, 1852, yeah. i'm just upset right now.
operator: okay, do you know what happened, ma'am?
caller: sir, i don't know. he's been missing for three weeks, my son said, so i don't know. she's the last one that was here with him, so the cops already knew that somebody would have been calling him about him being missing. so my son came over, something didn't feel right with me, so i told my son to just come over and check the apartment out, and he did, and he found him.
operator: my partner's going to get an ambulance on the way over there. do you think the baby is beyond any help, ma'am?
caller: huh?
operator: do you think the baby is beyond any help?
caller: sir, the baby's been dead for about three weeks or longer.
operator: oh, lord. is there anything we can do for you on-site?
operator: we'll be on the way, ma'am.
caller: okay, thanks.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, it's 12. question 12. eight point zero one two.
operator: go ahead. what seems to be the problem?
caller: we got a call. we're evacuating right now.
operator: what's your location?
caller: ampy.
operator: copy. i just received information about a possible shooting at the high school cafeteria.
caller: say that again?
operator: a possible shooting at the high school cafeteria. can you check on that?
caller: you're on the fight right now.
operator: alright, it's an active shooter situation for now.
caller: marysville, shut the cafeteria until verification.
operator: copy. multiple units are en route.
caller: we've got probably four down.
operator: copy, four down, one confirmed. do we have casualties?
caller: one confirmed down, possibly more.
operator: we have multiple units in county, all are responding.
caller: i need immediate aid here, i have two that are still breathing, three possibly deceased.
operator: copy. do we have the shooter in custody?
caller: shooter is down.
operator: copy. shooter down, thank you.
caller: david 4 arriving.
operator: david 4 copy. can you start setting up blocking roadway to stop entry into the area?
caller: yes, we need someone at 116.
operator: copy that. units will block off at 116.
caller: david 1, i'm going into the area.
operator: copy. 33 sam, any units in the area at 108 and schultz?
caller: 33 sam arriving.
operator: 33 sam copy.
caller: team setting up.
operator: roger that. sam 10, is the scene secure for aid to come in?
caller: scene secure. aid can come in.
operator: copy. aid has been advised to expedite.
caller: do you want our team to clear the school?
operator: yes, set up a team to clear the school from the south side entrance.
caller: copy that. we're moving in.
operator: roger. all teams, secure all entrances and exits.
caller: i have a clerk here, room clear.
operator: copy. 33 sam, we have additional teams ready to move in.
caller: sam 10. five more units coming to the south side.
operator: copy, five more units on the south side.
caller: moving 60 from the adam charles building.
operator: roger that. secure all exits.
caller: we are clearing now.
operator: copy. once clear, head to the north side for evacuation.
caller: command post, have two teams ready.
operator: copy. teams are ready and in position.
caller: command post, one team in the cafeteria.
operator: copy. one team in the cafeteria.
caller: we have 30 in room ps1.
operator: copy. room ps1. shelter in place.
caller: eight additional witnesses coming out towards aid units now.
operator: copy. eight witnesses to aid units.
caller: special needs group heading north.
operator: copy. special needs group escorted north.
caller: three deputies have the perimeter on lockdown.
operator: copy. perimeter is secure.
caller: david 33-san needs support.
operator: copy. additional units are en route to support.
caller: parents are asking where to pick up their kids.
operator: parent pick-up at the church on 116 and 51st.
caller: roger that. sending parents to the church.
operator: copy. transport teams on standby.
caller: do we have any units checking the surrounding area?
operator: affirmative, units are checking nearby streets.
caller: setting up choke points for traffic.
operator: roger. choke points in place.
caller: library is now clear.
operator: copy. library clear. continue clearing other buildings.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my brother!
operator: hello? hi, what's your address?
caller: okay.
operator: hello. hi, what's your address?
caller: he's not conscious.
operator: okay, ma'am. tell me your address.
caller: 1420 south.
operator: okay. how old is your son?
caller: he's 20 months. he's not conscious.
operator: okay. is anybody there with you?
caller: it's my children.
operator: okay. he's not conscious right now?
caller: no, he's not conscious right now.
operator: okay. is he breathing at all?
caller: i can't tell. how can i tell?
operator: if he's getting any air at all, you should be able to hear it or see his chest rise and fall. do you know what he's choking on?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: okay, oh my gosh, please help me.
operator: look, i don't want you to slap him on the back, okay? i'm getting an ambulance headed your way.
caller: okay.
operator: you're by him right now?
caller: i'm by him right now.
caller: oh, my heart.
operator: okay, tell me exactly what you see and hear him doing.
caller: he's just limp.
operator: okay, is he face-up on the ground?
caller: huh?
operator: lay him face-up on the ground.
caller: face up.
operator: i want you to place two fingers in the center of his chest, right between his nipples, and push down quickly one inch with only your fingers touching his chest.
caller: okay. he's having a little bit of a reaction.
operator: okay. keep doing it until he starts to breathe or cry.
caller: he's breathing a little bit, and then he stopped. oh, my god.
operator: okay, just keep doing it.
operator: is he just flat on his back on the ground?
caller: oh, my heart. what are we going to do?
operator: can you see anything in his mouth?
caller: i don't see anything.
operator: okay. i don't want you to stick your fingers in his mouth because you might force it down further, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: put your hand on his forehead and your other hand under his neck and shoulders and slightly tilt his head back.
caller: okay.
operator: put your ear next to his mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: very, very light.
operator: okay, just keep him like that if he's getting a little bit of air.
operator: you want to keep his airway open. are you jennifer?
caller: yes.
operator: try to stay calm for me, okay?
caller: oh, my god. oh, my god.
operator: is he still getting some air?
caller: yes, he just took a breath.
operator: okay, that's a good sign. try to stay calm. can you see his chest rising or feel the air?
caller: every now and then he'll take a gasp.
operator: okay, let me tell you how to give mouth-to-mouth. with his head still slightly tilted back, completely cover his mouth and nose with your mouth and blow two puffs of air into his lungs, about one second each, just enough to make his chest rise with each breath.
caller: okay, and then keep doing it?
operator: yes, do two and let me know if you feel the air going in and out.
caller: he's trying to take a gasp.
caller: is the ambulance coming?
operator: yes, they are coming. just keep doing it so they can get in there and take over.
operator: jennifer?
caller: yes.
operator: paramedics are following up but i need you to keep doing what you're doing to help your son until they can get in there and take over.
caller: okay.
caller: oh, my god. oh, my god. oh, my god.
operator: are they with you?
operator: okay, i'll let you go. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, across from 4709, 40th avenue.
operator: 4709?
caller: um, yeah, 4709.
operator: okay, what city is that, ma'am?
caller: i'm in hyattsville, sorry.
operator: and what's your name?
caller: cynthia.
operator: cynthia? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: it's a fire. the house is on fire.
operator: okay, the house is on fire?
caller: yeah.
operator: is everyone out?
caller: not everyone's out.
operator: not everyone's out?
caller: no.
operator: alright, hold on one second, okay. the house is catching fire fast. is it a single-family home?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know how many floors or stories there are?
caller: two.
operator: and you said there are people inside?
caller: yes. children.
operator: the call is in. stay on the line. i need to know how many are inside, do you know?
caller: i don't know. i'm across the street.
operator: do you know how many children live in that house?
caller: uh, three, i think.
operator: do you know exactly?
caller: i can't get any closer.
operator: who's that screaming? are they the owners?
caller: yes.
operator: can you ask them if there's anybody inside and where?
caller: martha, who's inside? where? i'm on the phone with 999.
caller: he's in there.
operator: how many people are still inside?
caller: he's not listening to me. his wife is trying to get back inside.
operator: okay, tell him not to go back inside.
operator: just try to find out who's inside and where they are.
caller: he's not listening to me. i can't get any closer because the fire is growing.
operator: the call is in, help is on the way, okay? whatever information you can gather is going to be helpful to us.
operator: do you know what floor is on fire?
caller: it's the first floor.
caller: what was that?
caller: a power line. it's burning off the house.
operator: did it go down or is it burning?
caller: it's disconnected from the house.
operator: okay, you said it was the first floor on fire?
caller: yeah.
caller: my roommate, don watson, is on the line too. i guess he called 999.
operator: he's calling 999 as well? alright, if you can, find out from the owners where the people are inside. we need to know now. we have everyone on the way.
caller: okay, i'm trying to get back around the side of the neighbor's house.
operator: okay. we have the fire department on the way.
operator: are you still there?
caller: i'm here.
operator: if it is safe to do so, keep bystanders away from the area.
caller: marcos, where are you? can everybody get out? where is everyone?
caller: his daughter's inside.
operator: the daughter?
caller: the daughter.
operator: how old is the daughter?
caller: she's less than 12.
operator: do you know where inside they are?
caller: no, i can't get closer. i'm just at the neighbor's house.
operator: the address you gave me, is that the house on fire?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: and it's 4709?
caller: yeah.
operator: do you know where the daughter is?
caller: no, he won't say.
caller: the kids are upstairs.
operator: the kids are upstairs?
caller: yes.
operator: so there may be two children upstairs?
caller: yes, there's definitely one child upstairs.
operator: the fire department's coming. please don't go back inside.
operator: is that the mother?
caller: the mother and the father.
caller: the neighbor on the other side just came over and said there are two children out of the house.
operator: okay, so you don't know if anyone is inside of the house?
caller: no, i called you just after the fire started.
operator: do you know what caused it?
caller: no.
operator: where are the flames coming from? are they in the front or back of the house?
caller: the front.
operator: and you said it was the first floor?
caller: yeah.
operator: is the first floor below ground or above ground?
caller: it's on the ground.
operator: okay, you should be seeing the fire department.
operator: do you see them?
caller: yes.
operator: make sure to let them know where and how many are inside.
caller: okay, everybody's in the backyard. i'm going around to the front.
operator: try to get to them and let them know there are kids inside.
caller: i'm yelling to the firemen, two kids upstairs.
operator: okay, you told them?
caller: yeah. let me make sure they understood.
operator: now, the power line that blew up, do you still see it?
caller: yeah.
operator: is it on the ground or up in the air?
scenario:traffic
caller: it's on the ground.
operator: can you point that out to some of the firefighters so they know?
caller: okay.
operator: okay, someone is with you now?
operator: where are the power lines down, ma'am? on what side of the house?
caller: on the side of the house, facing the right.
caller: someone sees it, they are all over it.
operator: alright, everybody's there?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, are you okay?
caller: yep, i'm fine.
operator: alright.
caller: okay, bye.
operator: okay, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm walking in the field. i don't know where i am.
operator: you're walking in a field? okay, i need you to just stop. i'm going to try to find you on my screen.
operator: did you go in the ditch?
caller: yes, then we started walking.
caller: we thought it was close enough.
operator: okay, can you go back to your vehicle?
caller: i can't. i don't know where it is.
operator: you don't know where it is? okay. i want you to just stay on the line with me. it looks like i can find you.
operator: what road were you driving on?
caller: we were coming up this hour.
operator: okay, one second. i'm still online with you, okay?
caller: hello?
operator: okay, i'm still online with you. how many people are with you?
caller: me and one other person.
operator: okay. do you remember which way you were walking, or did you totally get turned around?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: okay, what i want you to do is stay on the line. i'm trying to pull you up on the map right now to see if i can find a location showing which way you are walking.
operator: can you start walking? do you know which way west is?
caller: i don't know. i don't.
operator: do you know where prairie road is?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, i want you to start walking. you're going to have to walk one way or the other, and then i'll be able to tell you which way to go.
operator: do you have enough clothing on?
caller: no, i came from a wedding. i don't have much.
operator: okay, i'm going to page out some people to help find you.
operator: i want you to stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: i'm crying. okay?
caller: i don't know, i'll lose it if i stay here.
caller: i can't get over.
caller: please hold.
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
caller: hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: um, yes, i'm on north rice avenue. there's a man shooting!
operator: can you tell if there's anybody injured? we have the fire department and officers en route.
caller: no, he didn't shoot my grandma's house.
operator: okay, the fire department is en route.
caller: hello, hello. he's coming immediately.
operator: who is in your house, ma'am?
caller: we're two houses down.
operator: is he at your house right now?
caller: yes, he's shooting! what's your address?
operator: ma'am, ma'am, i need to know your address.
caller: it's 1129 oak street.
operator: ma'am, stay on the phone with me. do not hang up, okay?
caller: he's outside and my mom's house is on fire.
operator: ma'am, take a deep breath, okay? officers are outside.
caller: is he still shooting?
operator: is he still shooting?
caller: no, he was.
operator: the officers are there and the fire department is en route.
caller: i can't recognize him but i have a feeling i know who it is.
operator: who do you think it is?
caller: his name is bruce.
operator: who is he to you?
caller: he's my ex-brother-in-law. they're going through a distress right now.
operator: is he still there?
caller: my house is on fire. my mom's house is on fire.
operator: the fire department is there. who is in the house?
caller: send an ambulance!
operator: they're there, ma'am. who is all inside the house that's on fire?
caller: 1141 is my address. some of my family is here.
operator: okay, 1141. hold on one second.
caller: some of my family is doing...
operator: the officers are there, okay? they are trying to get to you.
caller: my daughter is here. she's been shot in the face.
operator: the officers and paramedics are almost there. stay on the phone with me.
caller: i don't know who else is alive.
operator: you're doing great. the officers are just making sure it's safe to enter.
caller: my wife and family...it's pretty deep.
operator: okay. the officers are there. they're trying to get to you.
caller: my younger five-year-old is here.
operator: the officers are right outside. hold on.
caller: my name is leticia.
operator: okay, leticia. an officer named sergeant eddings is coming to your house right now.
caller: please send sergeant upstairs. i don't know where my son is.
operator: hold on one second, leticia. you're doing very well.
caller: i can't keep it together.
operator: i know, i know. you're doing perfect. it's going to be okay.
caller: please, i hope it's positive. i want my family to be safe.
operator: the officers will help your family. just stay on the phone with me.
caller: can i give her some water? she's in pain.
operator: just wait. the officers and paramedics will be there soon.
caller: what is he wearing? he changed his clothes from a santa claus suit.
operator: what is he wearing now?
caller: all black. he's knocking on neighbor's doors.
operator: hold on. lock all your doors. do not let him in.
caller: he came in with a shotgun. we all started panicking and running.
operator: who else is in the house with you?
caller: my two daughters, my husband, my nephews, nieces, and my nephew's girlfriend.
operator: okay, that's about 15 people. the officers are there making sure it's safe to enter.
caller: my daughter was shot in the face. she's bleeding.
operator: i let the officers know. just stay on the phone with me.
caller: i'm at 1141. please hurry.
operator: 1141, hold on one second. they're almost there.
caller: my daughter is in pain. can i give her motrin?
operator: no, wait for the paramedics to arrive. you're doing great.
caller: thank you. please hurry.
operator: they're on their way. stay on the phone.
caller: can she have some water?
operator: hold on one second. let me check.
operator: hello, i'm still here. the officers are almost to you.
caller: can we put her head up? she's losing a lot of blood.
operator: yes, get her a pillow. keep her head elevated.
caller: okay, thank you. she's in a lot of pain.
operator: you're doing great. just keep talking to me.
caller: my daughter is bleeding heavily.
operator: the paramedics are on their way. hold on a little longer.
caller: what's going on outside? i see lights.
operator: the officers are there. just keep calm and stay with me.
caller: i need to know what's happening.
operator: i understand. the officers are ensuring everything is safe.
caller: okay, thank you. please hurry.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: cushing police department. we've got a little boy missing. have you had any reports on one?
operator: no, ma'am. we haven't. how old is he?
caller: four.
operator: okay, what's your address?
caller: 722 east 3rd.
operator: do you know what he was wearing?
caller: no, i don't. his mother does. this is his grandmother.
operator: okay. what color is his hair?
caller: it's brown. brown hair, blue eyes. he's autistic and can't talk.
operator: okay, who am i speaking to?
caller: tom pennington.
operator: who's his mother?
caller: cheryl ryan pennington.
operator: ryan pennington?
caller: yes, they were asleep in the living room. he's autistic and doesn't sleep regular patterns, so he was up all night. they needed some sleep.
operator: okay. have you checked all the closets, under the beds, and other places?
caller: i don't know. they just woke up.
operator: is his mom out looking for him?
caller: yes.
operator: what's his name?
caller: blake.
operator: okay. does she have a cell phone?
caller: yes, but i don't know her number.
operator: okay, you have 722 east 3rd, an autistic 4-year-old boy with no clothing description at this time. i'm trying to get more information.
caller: yes, connie pennington's the grandmother.
operator: okay. has she found him?
caller: no.
operator: connie, do you know how long he's been gone?
caller: no. still haven't found him.
operator: okay. is that ryan? let me talk to ryan right quick, connie.
caller: she's hysterical.
operator: okay. were the doors unlocked?
caller: i don't know. let me talk to ryan.
operator: connie, let me talk to ryan.
caller: she's gone down the hall.
operator: ask her to look in all the closets and under the bed. also, ask her if she knows what he was wearing.
caller: what was he wearing? connie, i need to talk to ryan. we're wasting valuable time with her acting like this.
caller: she needs to talk to you, ryan.
caller: sure.
operator: did she leave again?
caller: yes. she's refusing to talk to me to provide any further information. still no clothing description at this time. brown hair, blue eyes, name of blake.
operator: okay. we are dispatching help to 722 east 3rd.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: state patrol, 9-9-9, we are on minnesota lake. our boat has capsized.
operator: okay, is everybody above water?
caller: fairly.
operator: what part of the lake are you on?
caller: we're about a mile south of the landing.
operator: miles south of the landing? can everyone swim?
caller: one of us can't swim.
operator: do you have life preservers with you?
caller: yes, but we have to hang on to the boat for dear life.
operator: okay, i need to transfer you to faribault county so they can send help. i'll stay on the line with you. how far offshore are you?
caller: approximately a mile.
operator: a mile offshore or a mile from the landing?
caller: a mile from the landing. hi, state patrol. i've got a boat that's capsized on minnesota lake about a mile south of the landing. two people are hanging on, one cannot swim.
operator: a mile south of the landing? got it. i'll page fire and rescue.
caller: are they coming? we're getting tired.
operator: yes, they're on their way. do you see any debris or something to help you float?
caller: there's a red gas can approximately 10-15 feet north of us.
operator: okay, is there any wildlife nearby, like a refuge area?
caller: yes, we're in the middle of the wildlife refuge area.
operator: stay on the line, they're coming. how's your friend holding up?
caller: he's keeping afloat, but it's getting harder.
operator: keep encouraging him. we'll stay with you as long as we can. if you need to put the phone down to help him, do it.
caller: we don't see any houses around us, just open water.
operator: stay calm and keep holding on. have you been able to grab anything else floating nearby?
caller: no, just the gas can, but it's moving away from us.
operator: okay, i'll let you know when they are close. do you have a jacket on?
caller: we have one life jacket between us. i gave it to my friend.
operator: good. keep holding on and stay calm. they're getting a boat into the water right now.
caller: we're trying, but the water is very cold and it's getting really tough. we're drifting further south.
operator: they're coming as quickly as they can. do you see any lights from the rescue vehicles?
caller: yes, i see some lights.
operator: they're getting closer. just keep holding on and stay calm.
caller: okay, but we are freezing. please, hurry!
operator: they're almost there. i know it's tough, but stay with me and keep holding on.
caller: i see a rescue truck coming towards us. we're directly in line with it.
operator: that's great. keep your eyes on it and keep holding on. they will be with you very soon.
caller: we're both above water but just barely holding on.
operator: help is almost there. stay strong, stay calm.
caller: we're starting to lose strength. where are they?
operator: they're launching the boat now. hang in there, keith.
caller: i see them! they're on the way.
operator: good, just keep holding on a little longer. you're doing great.
caller: okay. i hope they get here soon.
operator: they're almost there. you're going to be okay. just stay with me.
caller: got it. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my dad's trying to assist a police officer, and someone started shooting at them!
operator: where are they now? can you give me the location?
caller: they're on russell farm road, near the intersection with copper mine road.
operator: are they still shooting? is anyone hurt?
caller: i think the officer is down. my dad and another person are trying to help him. the shooter tried to run them over!
operator: stay calm. i'm sending help right now. can you see the shooter? what are they driving?
caller: they were in a blue toyota. i'm not sure where they went.
operator: alright, help is on the way. are you in a safe place right now?
caller: yes, i'm hiding near my car, but i can still see them.
operator: perfect. stay hidden and don't make any noise. officers are en route. stay on the line with me until they arrive.
caller: okay, i'll stay here.
operator: can you see how many people are involved besides your father and the officer?
caller: it looks like just one person was shooting. my dad and another bystander are trying to help the officer.
operator: understood. stay as quiet as you can, and please don't hang up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: old bridge, please. there's a shooting.
operator: where are they shooting at?
caller: route 9 and old bridge. at the pathmark.
operator: okay, ma'am, i need you to calm down and tell me your exact location. are you at a store?
caller: yes, i'm in the back room of the pathmark. we locked ourselves in.
operator: alright, do you know if anybody is hurt right now?
caller: no, i don’t know. we are just hiding.
operator: okay. do you have any cameras or anything where you can see what's going on?
caller: no, we don't.
operator: what back room are you locked in right now?
caller: in the middle of the back room. please hurry.
operator: okay, i got everyone coming. just try to relax for me, alright? you're locked in the room, right?
caller: yes, but they can get in. they have guns.
operator: alright, i'm going to put you on hold for one second, please don't hang up, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, hello, my daughter works at the pathmark overnight. there's a shooting.
operator: do you know if anybody's hurt, ma'am?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, we've got people on the way. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
scenario:domestic
caller: i'm at the old bridge pathmark. someone has a shotgun, and he's tearing the place apart.
operator: is anyone hurt?
caller: i don't know. we all ran out of the store.
operator: is he still in the store?
caller: yes, his name is terrence.
operator: what is he wearing? is he a black male, white male?
caller: a black male, former marine, wearing a bulletproof vest.
operator: please stay calm. we've got everyone on the way. how many people do you think are in the store?
caller: about 15 or 16.
operator: okay, do you know exactly where he was when you left the store?
caller: he was at the front door when i left.
operator: alright, how do you know terrence?
caller: he works at pathmark. he just went postal.
operator: okay, you're safe now? are you far from the building?
caller: yes, we're in the parking lot.
operator: alright, try to stay hidden and safe. we are sending help as quickly as possible.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: can you see if anyone is injured?
caller: i don't know, i've been running and hiding.
operator: alright, do not go back. just stay safe.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: my daughter is in the pathmark. she just called saying someone is shooting.
operator: okay. we already have help on the way.
caller: alright. thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm still inside the pathmark. i'm in the back room hiding.
operator: are you okay? do you see the shooter?
caller: no, i'm hiding. please hurry.
operator: we have officers on the way. stay hidden and quiet.
caller: okay. he's a black guy, short, wearing a white t-shirt, dark pants.
operator: alright, stay hidden. help is on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: there's gunshots at old bridge pathmark.
operator: are you safe? can you see the shooter?
caller: no. i'm hiding in the back room.
operator: stay where you are. help is coming.
caller: oh god. i hear more shots.
operator: okay, stay hidden. do not move.
caller: i think he's coming here.
operator: try to stay as quiet as possible.
caller: please hurry.
operator: we're doing everything we can. stay where you are, please.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fire emergency. my mom is in the bathroom and she can't get up.
operator: okay, are there other people at home with you?
caller: i have a little sister, a big sister, two big brothers, and my dad, but my dad and big brothers aren't home.
operator: is your dad at home with you?
caller: no, he's at work.
operator: okay, so you're home alone with your mom and your little sister?
caller: yeah.
operator: is your mom awake?
caller: yeah, she threw up and then she fell and can't get up.
operator: is she still talking to you?
caller: yeah.
operator: can you take the phone to her?
caller: yeah. mom, he wants to talk to you. no, she can't talk right now.
operator: okay, what exactly happened? did she pass out?
caller: yes.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 4.
operator: alright, help is on the way. do you know the address?
caller: we live on bounty drive.
operator: okay, i have that. the firemen are on the way. stay on the phone with me, okay? i'll tell you when you need to open the door for them.
caller: okay.
operator: has your mom been sick the last couple of days?
caller: um, yeah, she sometimes gets sick a lot.
operator: okay. is your little sister there with you?
caller: yeah, she's in her high chair.
operator: how old is she?
caller: i don't know, she can't crawl but she can walk and talk.
operator: okay, so she's probably around 2 years old?
caller: yeah.
operator: what is she having for dinner?
caller: noodles.
operator: okay, and your mom made those for her?
caller: yes, but i'm not having noodles because i'm waiting for my toy house.
operator: alright. what does your dad do for work?
caller: he works near the jelly bean factory.
operator: okay, we can ask your mom for more details when the firefighters get there.
caller: okay.
operator: do you have any pets?
caller: yes, two dogs. one is in my brother's room and the other is in my room.
operator: can you close the door to the rooms they're in so the firemen don't scare them?
caller: yeah, i can do that.
operator: great job. just stay on the phone with me. how's your mom doing?
caller: she's still awake but starting to get sleepy.
operator: okay, the firefighters are almost there. are you near the front door?
caller: no, but i can go there.
operator: that's fine. just unlock it and stay inside until they arrive.
caller: okay.
operator: are you still with me?
caller: yes.
operator: they're almost there. do you still see your mom?
caller: yes, she's in the bathroom.
operator: okay, you've done a great job. the emergency responders will be there any second now.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: they won't go.
operator: do you have an emergency?
caller: yeah, i kind of do.
operator: okay. what is happening?
caller: my girlfriend, she has this ex-boyfriend and he's been stalking her.
operator: okay, just a second. i'll be right back with you, okay?
caller: thank you.
caller: hello?
operator: okay, where is this happening?
caller: he's following her right now. he will not leave her alone.
operator: where are you now?
caller: 44th and wadsworth.
operator: 44th and wadsworth. okay. is she in a car?
caller: she's in a car, and he's following her. you can hear her crying in the background. he just will not leave her alone.
operator: okay. what kind of car is she in?
caller: what kind of car are you in, amber? it's a black dodge caliber.
operator: and which way is she going? is she going north on wadsworth?
caller: which way are you going now, amber? north or south? west on 44th right now, but she's about to turn left on wadsworth.
operator: okay. just keep driving. he's going to keep following you, amber, but just keep driving, okay?
operator: is she going southbound on wadsworth now?
caller: are you going southbound on wadsworth now? yes.
operator: okay, chad, i have a stalker situation. he's following a girl. she's southbound on wadsworth.
operator: what happened? just a second. i'll be right back with you.
caller: you're not trapped? he's trapping you? he pulled in front of your car?
operator: she's crying. i can't understand. what, amber? he's trying to run you off the road?
caller: trying to run off the road? and is she still at 44th?
operator: where are you now? wadsworth and what? keep your door locked.
caller: where are you? what kind of car is he in? do you know?
operator: what kind of car is he in? you're hysterical. i don't hear her.
operator: and is she still at 44th and wadsworth?
caller: are you at 44th and wadsworth? amber? amber?
caller: holy shit, i just lost her. she had just turned south down on wadsworth from 44th.
caller: the person i was talking to had her on the phone but lost contact.
caller: i just told her that but lost her.
operator: okay. she's somewhere near there, 44th and wadsworth.
operator: what's her cell phone number?
caller: 303-547-4089. this guy has threatened her life.
operator: okay. just a second. i'll be right back again, okay?
operator: okay. and your name?
caller: my name is alex.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: 303-710-5151.
operator: okay. we've got officers on the way.
caller: holy shit. okay.
operator: okay. thanks, alex.
caller: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'd like to report a car accident and shots fired.
operator: okay. where did this happen?
caller: just after 38th avenue going southbound on wadsworth.
operator: 38th and wadsworth?
caller: yes.
operator: are both cars still there?
caller: no, one of the cars, a man pulled out. he looked to be in his mid-30s, and he was in a light toyota truck. it looks like there's an officer on the scene right now.
operator: okay. do you know what kind of car is involved in the accident?
caller: i'm not sure. the other car that was present was a black ford contour driving southbound on wadsworth. i'm going to let you go. i'll talk to the officer.
operator: okay.
caller: okay. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we just caught two boys breaking into our car, and we've detained one of them on our porch.
operator: you got one on the front porch?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what's your address?
caller: 36-09 5th avenue, and the other one's running.
operator: but you got one?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: is it a male or female?
caller: a male.
operator: black male, white male?
caller: white male.
operator: okay, hold him there.
caller: we are because our car was broken into about eight months ago, so we already know who did it.
caller: no, that's not correct. but we do have one detained.
caller: they're all just standing around here.
operator: they're on their way, just hold them.
caller: one of them busted our window.
caller: not again. they already got his speaker box.
caller: yes, they got his speaker box and one of them ran.
operator: okay, the police are on their way.
caller: they got his cd player and ran with it.
caller: our dog started barking, that's how we heard them.
operator: do you know where the other suspect went?
caller: no.
caller: one more white kid is coming down the street right now.
operator: okay, just stay in the house and hold onto the one you have. they'll be there shortly.
caller: he's shooting! they're shooting at us!
operator: shots fired. shots fired. stay down.
caller: he shot my house! they're shooting my house!
operator: stay inside. do you know where he is now?
caller: yes, he's walking down the street with a gun.
operator: can you describe him?
caller: they were wearing hoodies. they're white males.
operator: okay, we've got the description. the police should be arriving any moment.
caller: it’s been three minutes already.
operator: they're doing their best. please stay safe and inside.
caller: my boyfriend has been shot. he's got blood all over him.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: yes, but he's losing a lot of blood.
operator: okay, i've updated the responders. the ambulance will be there soon.
caller: they live in this neighborhood. the police should know them.
operator: please stay inside until help arrives.
caller: i have three babies in this house and the police still aren't here.
operator: they're on their way, ma'am. just stay calm and stay inside.
operator: what's your name?
caller: christy lewis.
operator: alright, christy. the fire department and ambulance are often dispatched together. they should be with you soon.
caller: okay, the police are here now. can i hang up?
operator: yes, you can. stay safe.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's our hunting cabin. it's on panhandle road across from the pump stations, near rock road. i think it's 157.
operator: okay.
caller: we went to the quail's unlimited dinner last night, and a friend of mine looks like he hit his head in the bathroom, and i can't get him to get up.
operator: okay. is he breathing?
caller: i can't tell. it looks like maybe, but i can't get his mouth open.
operator: okay. is it the michael cook residence?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: does 335151.157th avenue sound right?
caller: that sounds correct, yes.
operator: okay. his nose is bleeding; it looks like maybe he slipped while he was going to the bathroom or something?
caller: yes, he's been there since last night.
operator: okay, what's the phone number you're calling me from?
caller: it's 734.
operator: okay, i need you to get right down by his face and tell me if he's breathing. put your face right next to his nose and mouth.
caller: okay, it doesn't feel like he is.
operator: okay, how old is he?
caller: he's 49. but his body doesn't feel ice cold, though.
operator: okay. what color is he?
caller: he's white.
operator: okay. is he cold?
caller: yes, but he's been sleeping on the floor.
operator: okay. and you don't feel any breathing?
caller: i don't feel any breathing, no.
operator: okay. where is he at in the bathroom? are you able to get him on his back?
caller: i don't think so. he's a big guy.
operator: okay. we're going to have to try to do cpr, so i need you to try to get him on his back, if at all possible.
caller: joe, joe, come on. get up. joe, wake up, please. go on your back, joe. joe, can you hear me? sir? sir? can you hear me? hello? sir? hello?
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i can't tell for sure if he is.
operator: okay, were you able to get him on his back?
caller: no, he's huge. i can't move him.
operator: okay. can you get his mouth open at all?
caller: yeah, i can get his mouth open a little bit.
operator: okay. can you see if there's any food or vomit in his mouth?
caller: i don't see any.
operator: is there anybody else there that can help you move him?
caller: no.
operator: okay, you said he's not cold, right?
caller: his hands are cold, but not the rest of his body.
operator: okay. we really need to try to get him on his back so we can check for proper breathing. can you feel anything if you put your hand by his nose or mouth?
caller: he doesn’t respond to me when i talk to him.
operator: how old is he again?
caller: 49.
operator: i need you to confirm if he's breathing or not.
caller: i'm not sure. i've got my finger in his mouth.
operator: are you able to feel in his mouth for anything?
scenario:medical
caller: see if there's anything blocking his airway?
operator: yes, is there anything in his throat?
caller: no.
caller: are people coming now?
operator: yes, we have them on their way, but i need you to work with me until they get there, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you get your hand in his mouth at all to see if there's anything blocking his airway?
caller: his teeth are closed.
operator: can you see into his mouth at all even with his teeth closed?
caller: there's some blood coming from his nose.
operator: help is already on the way, okay? stay on the phone.
caller: okay.
operator: can you get a blanket or anything to keep him warm?
caller: yeah.
caller: it looks like he might have fallen in the living room. there's some broken glass there.
operator: okay. are you back in the bathroom with him?
caller: no, i'm just getting a blanket.
operator: there's no way at all you could drag him out by his feet or anything?
caller: i don't think so, he's a big guy.
operator: there's absolutely nothing you can do to maneuver him or drag him out?
caller: i've been trying.
operator: even if you have to set the phone down, just anything you can think of to get him on his back.
caller: joe, joe, joseph, get up.
operator: are you able to see any way to move him? put me on speaker if you need to.
caller: hello?
operator: are you able to move him?
caller: no, it's too difficult. i hurt my back trying.
operator: okay. is he on his side?
caller: yes.
operator: is he wedged in there?
caller: yes, kind of wedged on his side.
operator: can you use a blanket to help move him?
caller: i'm trying.
operator: are first responders getting closer?
caller: i think so.
operator: can you hear them?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. has anything changed with him at all?
caller: not really.
operator: you're sure the door is unlocked?
caller: yes.
operator: if the responders can't find the house, you may need to leave him to go find them, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: are you still unable to move him?
caller: yes, he's probably close to 300 pounds.
caller: his pants are around his ankles, like he was trying to go to the bathroom.
operator: is the house visible from the road?
caller: no, it's around a corner.
operator: there is a log cabin by the road?
caller: yes, but the house is back around the corner.
operator: they are getting closer, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: anything changing with him?
operator: you're sure where the doors are?
caller: how are you guys doing?
operator: yes. are they right there with you?
caller: he's in the bathroom.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're at the mcdonald's and there's an issue, i need help.
operator: copy that, can you describe the issue further?
caller: there's a group causing a lot of trouble here, i need someone to come quickly!
operator: copy. dispatching units to your location. are there any weapons involved?
caller: no weapons that i can see, but they're getting really aggressive.
operator: understood. units are on their way. stay on the line with me.
operator: 314 and 315, respond to a civil issue at 705 north telluride street, unit a.
operator: anonymous caller reports two individuals living in a storage unit there. looking for a white male named donnie, about 30 years old, and a white male child named bill, about 6 years old. associated vehicle is a brown chevy pickup, no plate.
operator: 324: check hamden and dowell, chase parking lot, colorado passenger 1-200.
operator: 302: respond to moline apartments, 1390 north moline street. possible altercation involving eight males in a truck trying to jump the daughter's boyfriend, now possibly near central high school.
operator: copy 305. respond to same.
operator: seeking further descriptions.
operator: 314: can we get better address details?
operator: that's the only address given.
operator: 314: i'm not finding any storage places.
operator: 302: rp can't provide descriptions but mentions suspect named ronnie. he might be in the area.
operator: clearing the area near love and newark.
operator: some males spotted on newark.
operator: 303: confirming with males on newark.
operator: 305: i'm in the area.
operator: newark just off 11th.
operator: copy that, go ahead.
operator: advising not with the indian suspect, but another involved party might be in a northern suburb.
operator: metrotentic king 4, go ahead.
operator: are your suspects black males?
caller: stand by, i need to check. we don't have the full story yet.
operator: can you determine if they might be pacific islander?
operator: 315 traffic.
operator: was that 315 or 627?
operator: sum 627 in traffic.
operator: norado and x-ray. static on the plate.
operator: 6-1-laredo. plate again?
operator: 159, x-ray and nora x-ray.
operator: 627, okay.
operator: metrotentic king 4, go ahead.
operator: black males.
operator: 316 and 317 for a fight at the preserve, 1036 south el cartway. 3 men in a parking lot.
caller: 17-11, no caller yet.
operator: 947-637-7-3-7-3.
operator: 627, your status?
caller: okay.
operator: 627, did you say code 4?
caller: yes.
operator: 302 or any other car, 11th and newark status?
caller: code 4.
operator: 316, 317, only one caller. originally reported 3 individuals, now thinks there might be 2. one in a white shirt and red shorts, the other in a white shirt and no-color pants.
operator: 322 to 320.
operator: 320.
operator: you still at the apartment?
caller: heading there, will be there in a minute.
operator: 316, okay.
operator: 315 and 314, report of a shooting at century theaters, 14300 east alameda avenue. someone reported shooting inside the auditorium.
operator: units responding to the shooting, switch to remain on channel 2. all others back to normal.
operator: engine 6, unknown medical issue.
operator: 315 and 314, copy that.
operator: all available units, respond to the theater, 14-300 east alameda avenue.
operator: 316, okay.
operator: cruiser 11 on scene.
operator: 213, okay.
operator: 323 on scene.
operator: engine 8, battalion 1 on a shooting, 9 george 2, east side.
operator: still active shooter inside, need backup.
operator: lincoln 25, need backup on the back side as well.
operator: 514, need ambulances.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, hello?
operator: this is 999, where is your emergency?
caller: yeah, i was trying to find out if i needed to bring, like, any checkstubs or a letter from the school, you know, saying that i'll be subbing or whatever.
operator: i'm sorry?
operator: this is belmont 999.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what is your emergency?
caller: well, i was needing to find out if you guys would need to, uh, like, uh, like the copy of the birth certificate or something from the school showing that i'll be subbing or whatever.
operator: ma'am, this is for life or death emergencies.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what is your life or death emergency?
caller: okay.
operator: do you have a life or death emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, who's dying or who's getting hurt?
caller: my name is...
operator: uh-huh.
caller: well, she's three.
operator: okay.
operator: and you're...
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: i can get that from the personal advancement.
operator: okay.
operator: someone's there and you can't tell me?
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: when is the next appointment y'all have? like, when is y'all waiting this?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm trapped on the backside of a forest fire. i need help.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i don't know exactly. i'm in a clear cut area right near the fire.
operator: what's going on?
caller: i was walking through the woods, and suddenly the fire started circling around me.
operator: is your house nearby?
caller: yes, it's at 238 south alice. i was walking along deer trails, trying to get away because the fire is coming fast through the grass.
operator: okay, 238 south alice. do you know if you are east, north, south, or west of your house?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: i've got your number. i'm going to call the sheriff.
caller: i see airplanes.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me. don't hang up. you have an emergency right now.
caller: the fire was close to my house and i got lost. i'm on the deer trail now.
operator: alright, stay on with me. what's your name?
caller: michael fritz.
operator: okay, michael, is the fire on you yet?
caller: no, ma'am. i'm on the deer trail now.
operator: are you seeing anyone or anything around you?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: can you see the fire?
caller: yes, ma'am. i see the fire, but no one is around.
operator: can you hear any sirens or see any vehicles?
caller: no, ma'am. just a lot of smoke.
operator: can you wave something to signal to the planes above?
caller: i see a plane coming close. the fire is getting closer.
operator: stay on the line. can you see the sun or any landmarks?
caller: no, ma'am. the fire is surrounding me.
operator: can you move towards a different direction away from the fire?
caller: i don't know which way to go. the flames are on me.
operator: try moving towards an area with less smoke. can you do that?
caller: i'm trying. it's so smoky.
operator: describe your surroundings. are you near any clearings or trails?
caller: i'm in a pine thicket. i think i'm on a deer trail road.
operator: okay, keep moving. are you heading towards the sirens?
caller: i hear the sirens. they're to my right.
operator: keep moving towards the sirens. do you see any vehicles yet?
caller: yes, there's a cop car up ahead.
operator: stay where you are. they've got you. are you okay?
caller: yes, i think so. they got me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh my god, there's a dead man in a car on forest circle!
operator: you're on forest circle? what happened?
caller: i don't know exactly. i just found him, please hurry!
operator: okay, hold on a second. what's your name?
caller: my name is james. please hurry!
operator: can you tell me more about what happened?
caller: i shot the guy. he was going to kill me. i had to do it.
operator: alright, hold on just a second. what's your name?
caller: james.
operator: where are you right now? are you in corbin or williamsburg?
caller: i'm in corbin, up on the hill on forest circle.
operator: is the man still there with you? is he okay?
caller: no, he's shot. he's dead. i killed him.
operator: okay, hold on. stay on the line, i'm going to transfer you.
operator: corbin dispatch.
caller: hello, this is james.
operator: what's your emergency, james?
caller: i just shot a guy on forest circle. he threatened to kill me, so i shot him.
operator: alright, where exactly are you on forest circle?
caller: i'm up on the hill at 11034 forest circle.
operator: what's your name?
caller: bill cox.
operator: why did you shoot him?
caller: he's been hitting my daughter. he threatened to kill me. i had no choice.
operator: what's his name?
caller: ryan abner.
operator: can you still see him?
caller: no, he's dead.
operator: where's your gun now?
caller: i gave it back to the neighbor.
operator: where exactly are you right now?
caller: i'm in my white truck, parked near the house.
operator: okay, i’m going to let the officers know. stay on the line.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about five minutes ago.
operator: how many times did you shoot him?
caller: i think just once, in the head.
operator: alright. i've informed the officers, they're on their way.
caller: okay. he's been beating my daughter and i couldn't take it anymore.
operator: i understand. stay calm, they're almost there.
caller: okay. i'm sitting in the truck, waiting for them.
operator: when the officers arrive, keep your hands where they can see them, and follow their instructions.
caller: alright, i will.
operator: are you walking outside now?
caller: yes, here they are.
operator: go ahead and hang up once you're with them.
caller: okay, hanging up now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my house.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 152 river creek lane.
operator: okay, what's the emergency?
caller: i just killed my mom and my sister.
operator: what?
caller: i just killed my mom and my sister.
operator: you just killed your mother and your sister?
caller: yes.
operator: how did you do that?
caller: i shot them with a .22 revolver.
operator: and what is your name?
caller: jake evans.
operator: are you sure they're dead?
caller: yes.
operator: i want you to stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: alright.
scenario:medical
operator: are you alright?
caller: yeah, i'm fine.
operator: okay. hold on just a minute. where is the gun?
caller: it's on the kitchen counter.
operator: it's a .22?
caller: yes.
operator: are you on any kind of medication?
caller: no. well, i've been going to the allergist lately, but nothing other than that.
operator: how old are you?
caller: 17.
operator: you don't take any other kind of medication?
caller: just zyrtec and advil for allergies and headaches.
operator: is there any reason you were so angry at your mother and your sister?
caller: i wasn't really angry with them. it just kind of happened. i've been planning on killing for a while now.
operator: the two of them or just anybody?
caller: pretty much anybody. i don't really like people's attitude.
operator: it's okay. i'm listening.
caller: i think people are very rude to each other and stuff like that. my family, i felt like they were suffocating me. i know this is really selfish, but i guess i'm pretty evil.
operator: no, don't be sorry. it's okay. you have my undivided attention.
operator: were your mom and sister in their beds?
caller: my sister was in her room, and i told her mom needed her. when she came out, i shot her, and she rolled down the stairs. i shot her again, then i went down and shot my mom about three or four times.
operator: so they're both downstairs?
caller: yes.
operator: where are you?
caller: in the kitchen.
operator: you're not sitting by the gun, are you?
caller: no, it's about 10 or 15 feet away from me.
operator: where's your dad?
caller: he's out of town.
operator: do you know where he is?
caller: washington d.c.
operator: okay. for future reference, do you want any family members to visit you?
caller: i don't want any visitors.
operator: okay. where do you go to school, jake?
caller: i used to go to ladoga high school, but now i'm homeschooled.
operator: so it's just you, your sister, your mom, and your dad in the house?
caller: yes, and my grandparents live across the street. my oldest sister lives with them, and i have another sister in college.
operator: do you want to hurt yourself?
caller: i'm freaked out by guns now. i don't want to hurt myself.
operator: help will be provided to you, okay? there are people who will help you.
caller: okay.
operator: we're here to help you too.
operator: jake, where is the kitchen in the house? is it at the back?
caller: yes, towards the back.
operator: our sergeant is almost at your house. what i'll ask you to do is turn your porch light on. can you do that?
caller: okay.
operator: jake, do you want to talk about anything else?
caller: no, not really.
operator: what's your grandparents' last name?
caller: stevens.
operator: with a v or ph?
caller: s-t-e-v-e-n-s.
operator: what's your grandpa's first name?
caller: jim.
operator: and your grandma's?
caller: diane.
operator: is it a gated community? do you need a password?
caller: yes.
operator: do you have a driver's license?
caller: no.
operator: what's your date of birth?
caller: may 22, 1995.
operator: it's going to be alright. i'm staying on the phone with you, and they'll be there shortly. can you go to the front door and turn the porch light on?
caller: i turned them on.
operator: okay. jake, are you okay?
caller: i'm just thinking about my sister.
operator: how old was she?
caller: 15. she had a sweet side but could be rude to me sometimes.
operator: how long ago did this happen?
caller: about 30 minutes ago.
operator: you'll be alright, jake. just take deep breaths for me. in through your nose and out through your mouth.
operator: are there any cars in your driveway?
caller: no.
operator: take deep breaths, jake. in through your nose, out through your mouth.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, ma'am. my name is jarius jackson. i'm calling on behalf of my mother. she's on the phone right now.
caller: i'm in another country, canada. she's at my home in texas at 2711 driftwood drive, and she was a witness of a kidnapping tonight.
operator: who was kidnapped?
caller: a woman she works with named suzanne. she doesn't know her last name or too much about her. they just worked together and started talking today. the woman seemed very nervous all day.
caller: as they were walking to their cars, probably about 30-40 minutes ago, around 9:16, they were outside the store.
operator: where did this kidnapping occur?
caller: it was near the bed bath and beyond in pearland, right by walmart and chase bank.
operator: okay, where do you all work at?
caller: they work at catherine's.
operator: can you provide directions to your house?
caller: yes, if you are coming off 288, take the south fork exit. head into silver creek subdivision. turn right at the first stop sign by the car dealership. continue to the second entrance, which is coral drive, c-o-r-a-l. make a left onto coral, then a right at the next stop sign, which i think is tumbling falls. follow it to the next stop sign, make another right, and continue until you can make a left.
caller: when you make that left, go to the stop sign. you will then make another right, and then a left onto skyline drive, which eventually turns into driftwood. 2711 driftwood, second house on the left.
caller: my mom is scared to death because these people kidnapped suzanne. they parked near my mom and had a guy with a mask, gloves, and a gun.
caller: the guy asked my mom if she had a cell phone, and she said she didn't have one. he then told suzanne to get into the car.
operator: did the guy have a mask on?
caller: yes, he had a mask, gloves, and a silver gun. he told suzanne to get into the car, and she complied. my mom quickly drove off after that.
operator: is your mom still on the phone?
caller: yes, her name is karen jackson.
operator: okay, let her know we have an officer on the way to your house.
caller: thank you.
caller: hello? they're sending an officer to the house now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: the address is 1680 ray road. we have a baby missing out of her crib.
operator: okay, do you know who might have taken her?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: how old is she?
caller: she's 11 months old.
operator: okay, and can you confirm your address one more time?
caller: 1680 ray road, yes, ma'am.
operator: alright, and your last name?
caller: my last name is irizari. the baby's last name is creech.
operator: is the mother there?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: what’s her first name?
caller: michelle.
operator: what was she last seen wearing?
caller: she was wearing pink pajamas that say 'daddy.'
operator: okay, calm down, it's okay. the father just got home from iraq a few hours ago?
caller: yes, we went into the bedroom to get the baby, and the window to the baby's room is open.
operator: when was the last time someone saw her?
caller: just after 11:30 last night when michelle fed her.
operator: okay, the dad just got home today and went to get the baby up, she was gone?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: is the dad's name ronald?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: did he just get home from iraq?
caller: yes.
operator: her bib is on the ground? don't touch it.
caller: okay, we won't touch anything.
operator: it's okay. i need you to stay calm to help me help them. do you know anyone who might have access to the house?
caller: not that i know of. michelle, do you know anyone who might have access to the house?
caller: the bedroom window was open.
operator: make sure no one touches anything near the window. is there anything else missing?
caller: the baby's diaper bag and some of her clothes are gone.
operator: was the window shut when she was put to bed?
caller: yes, ma'am. the window was shut.
operator: is it a house or a mobile home?
caller: it's a house.
operator: was the window locked?
caller: i think it was locked.
operator: do you see anything else out of place without touching anything?
caller: no, nothing else seems out of order.
operator: tell ron not to touch anything. are the deputies there with you now?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: okay, i’ll let you hang up now.
caller: thank you, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a little girl who fell in the pool and i think she's unconscious right now.
operator: okay. what is the address?
caller: it's 886 east florida avenue.
operator: what city are you in?
caller: denver, colorado.
operator: alright, let me get you in touch with denver. do not hang up.
caller: okay, hold on one moment.
caller: i will stay on the phone.
operator: jennifer 999, 8274. how may i help you?
caller: hi, this is diva with aurora. i've got a lady on the phone who might possibly have an unconscious child. 886 east florida avenue. is that going to be yours?
operator: east florida? yes. is the child breathing?
caller: she's 12 years old. she's not breathing. she's not doing anything.
operator: alright, ma'am, hold on. i'm getting some help for you. hold on.
caller: she's not doing anything. what do we do? is there anything we can do?
operator: is she out of the pool?
caller: yes, she's out of the pool.
operator: okay, i need you to lay her on her back.
caller: we did. we laid her on her back.
operator: is she on a flat surface?
caller: yes, she's on a flat surface.
operator: alright, place one hand on her forehead and your other hand under her chin. tilt her head back to open her airway.
caller: okay, i'm doing that.
operator: ma'am, i'm going to give you instructions to help her breathe. can you do cpr?
caller: i don't think i can do it.
operator: is there someone else there who can?
caller: i'm the only one here and there's a little child only.
operator: okay, can you give the phone to the child, or can i walk you through cpr?
caller: i don't see anybody else. it's just the child and she's my neighbor.
operator: can you try to do cpr? i will guide you through it.
caller: okay, i will try.
operator: first, lay her flat on her back on a hard surface. tilt her head back to open her airway. can you do that?
caller: yes, i already did that.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: i think she is.
operator: can you see her chest rising and falling?
caller: yeah.
operator: what is the color of her face and lips?
caller: her lips are red and her face looks normal.
operator: but she's still unconscious, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: help is on the way. i want to make sure she is breathing though. is it normal breathing or is she gasping for air?
caller: she's gasping for air.
operator: right now she is?
caller: yes.
operator: describe to me how she is breathing.
caller: she's gasping and breathing hard.
operator: okay, hold on. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody from the capital one bank called saying there's a bag in the bank, and she said, 'i gotta go, i gotta go,' and hung up the phone.
operator: we’re receiving another call. they believe a robbery is in progress. can you confirm?
caller: yes, there’s a robbery in progress. the subject is in the back of the bank.
operator: how many robbers are there? can you describe them?
caller: he has a hostage. the robber has a black handgun and is behind the tellers.
operator: we have units on the way, and swat is being dispatched. can you describe the robber’s appearance?
caller: he's wearing a gray hooded sweatshirt.
operator: are there any other suspects or exits we need to be aware of?
caller: the robber said there are three other suspects outside and he has some type of bomb on the counter.
operator: stay calm. we’re setting up a staging area and securing the perimeter. can you keep an eye on the exits and let us know if you see any more suspects?
caller: i see a black suv with tinted windows parked outside.
operator: we have officers checking the parking lot. is the suv occupied?
caller: i can't tell from where i am. the suv windows are too dark.
operator: understood. we have units moving in. the situation is being handled. try to stay in a safe spot.
caller: okay, i’ll stay where i am.
operator: we’ve got a hostage on the move with the suspect in sight. keep your head down.
caller: smoke just went off inside the bank.
operator: stay clear of the building. shots fired, suspect is down. do we have any more suspects?
caller: no, i think the other suspects might have been a bluff. the robber wanted us to think there were more.
operator: copy that. we’re securing the area. are there any more hostages inside?
caller: no, i have five of the six employees with me. the last one is outside now.
operator: alright, we’re clearing the building. we'll keep you updated.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi.
operator: this is a 999 emergency operator on molokai.
caller: hello?
operator: yeah.
caller: i'm in a white honda, and my car doesn't want to turn off.
operator: okay, and your brakes?
caller: the car doesn't want to stop.
operator: you can't turn off your car. can you put it in neutral?
caller: it can't come out of gear.
operator: okay, and you can't put it in neutral?
caller: no.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm heading towards town. just passed the rubbish dump.
operator: okay, a white honda heading towards town past the rubbish dump.
caller: i'm losing control.
operator: alright, who am i talking to?
caller: gage.
operator: gage, is there any way you can turn off the car or put it in neutral? is it automatic?
caller: it's standard. i can't kick it into neutral.
operator: can you push in your clutch?
caller: i can, but my gear is stuck.
operator: okay, push in your clutch. you should be able to slow down.
caller: it's not slowing down.
operator: you've got your clutch in and your brake on, and it's still not slowing down?
caller: yeah, it's still not slowing down.
operator: where are you now?
caller: i just saw a cop. i'm losing control. my car is swerving.
operator: keep trying to put it in neutral. they're coming your way.
caller: i can't stop. i'm going to crash.
operator: have you tried your parking brake?
caller: it's not working. i can't stop.
operator: your brakes are on, but the car still isn't stopping?
caller: no, it won't stop.
operator: okay, stay on the line.
caller: hello? hello?
operator: are you okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, yeah, i need an ambulance at 233 pat lane.
operator: 233 pat lane?
caller: yeah, man, i don't know what this kid has done, and she's like going into a seizure or something.
operator: 233 pat lane?
caller: yes, i'm...
operator: is she conscious?
scenario:robbery
caller: no, no, no, she's not.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: no. come on, baby. wake up. no breathing.
operator: hello?
caller: oh, my. i don't know what to do, ma'am. i'm panicking.
operator: yes, i'm trying to talk to the officers to get them out there as well as the ambulance, okay?
caller: no, i don't know what to do.
operator: okay, do you know how to do cpr?
caller: um, no, and this ain't even my kid. how old is this person?
caller: two, two, two. come on, please, hurry up.
operator: okay, okay. i need you to be calm for me. alright?
caller: i'm not being calm. believe me, man. i'm just like slapping her and everything. i'm trying to wake her up.
operator: okay, listen to me. is she lying flat?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: can you try to get some breaths into her mouth? cover her nose completely and cover her whole mouth with yours and try to blow some breaths into her. is anything going in?
caller: yeah, and it's going right back out, ma'am. her eyes are rolling into the back of her head.
operator: can you feel a pulse on her anywhere?
caller: oh my god, i can feel her heart beating.
operator: you can feel her heart beating. that's good.
caller: oh my god, what do i do?
operator: okay. has she had anything to eat that she could have choked on?
caller: she was just eating in her room.
operator: okay. is anything blocking her airway?
caller: no, nothing, but where are they? do you have the door open?
operator: yes, the door is open.
caller: oh my god. baby, please, please.
operator: are you feeling any breath coming out of her at all?
caller: she just took a deep breath in. oh my god.
operator: that's good. is she responding to you at all?
caller: no, her eyes are just rolling, like she's not even here.
operator: has she had seizures before?
caller: she had one a couple of days ago, but it was real short, and i didn’t think anything of it. she hit her head.
operator: okay, listen to me. the officers are there, okay?
caller: oh my god, okay. i see them. thank you. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hornet drive.
operator: okay, do you need medical and police assistance?
caller: medical and police.
operator: okay, what's going on at hornet drive?
caller: i've been called over to my father-in-law's house because he got off the phone with my mother-in-law, and he's been slicing himself up and attempting to commit suicide.
operator: okay. i was here previously, and he was tearing up the house. he's drunk and belligerent.
caller: he's been off his medication.
operator: okay. are you inside the residence now?
caller: i'm standing outside the residence off the property.
operator: oh, you're standing outside. okay. is he inside the house alone?
caller: he is.
operator: okay. is he making threats or has he actually hurt himself?
caller: he's threatened my wife. he said he's cutting himself up and he's bleeding.
operator: oh, he is? okay. how long ago did he say that?
caller: within the last five to ten minutes.
operator: okay, and how are you related to him again?
caller: i'm his son-in-law.
operator: what's his name?
caller: larry clay.
operator: do you know what he's cutting himself with?
caller: a kitchen knife, likely.
operator: okay, and nobody's there but him and the dog?
caller: correct.
operator: all right, i'm not really in a position to enter the house because i'm carrying a concealed weapon.
operator: no, yeah, i wouldn't. you should know that he has threatened suicide by cop.
caller: he has done this before about 10 or 12 years ago.
operator: okay. and what's his name again?
caller: larry clay.
operator: how old is he?
caller: 48.
operator: does he have any other weapons in the house?
caller: no firearms that i know of, but possibly tools.
operator: okay, there's a lot of blood, apparently. how do you know that?
caller: my wife is talking to her mom, who is his wife.
operator: is he coming outside?
caller: he's standing on the front porch, motioning suicide threats to me.
operator: he's on the front porch now?
caller: yes. he's approaching me.
operator: okay, are you going to stay back or get away?
caller: i'm walking backwards.
operator: yeah, stay away. it sounds like he's playing music so loud he can't hear you. is that right?
caller: yes, he's very intoxicated. he's been drinking since 4 p.m.
operator: okay, and you said he's 48, right?
caller: yes.
operator: is he back in the house now?
caller: yes, he's gone back inside.
operator: okay, stay away. let me know if he comes back out.
caller: okay, he's on the outside porch now, facing hornet drive.
operator: can you see the knife?
caller: yes, one in each hand.
operator: okay, he's ready to die, stating it very intoxicated, wiping the knives, asking to be shot.
caller: yes, he's saying these things in a speaking voice.
operator: okay, we're letting officers know. we have a lot of units headed that way.
caller: thank you. i'm a law enforcement supporter myself.
operator: they know to approach with caution. has he done this kind of thing before?
caller: yes, about 10 or 12 years ago he was in a hostage standoff with police.
operator: okay, does he have any firearms now?
caller: no, just knives.
operator: okay, keep monitoring from a distance. let us know if anything changes.
caller: he's now around the back of the house, i lost visual.
operator: okay, that's fine. stay safe.
caller: i can hear him still making noise.
operator: all right, just keep your distance. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, this is oz county utilities emergency dispatch.
caller: we found a human skull.
operator: oh my gosh. where is it located?
caller: i'm going to speak right now with the representative from our field services.
caller: hi.
operator: hello, everything is recorded. how are you doing? do you believe you found a human skull?
caller: yes, we believe it's human.
operator: what's the location, please?
caller: it's right off of suburban and chickasaw in the kelly anthony area, right by the school.
operator: do you have a specific address for me?
caller: no, it's right by the school. if you go straight down, it dead ends right into the woods.
caller: it'll be on the east side of chickasaw and suburban.
operator: what is your party's name that we're going to meet with? he's not touching this, i hope.
caller: no, he's a meter reader. just tell him to stay at that location and stay away from everything.
operator: and if you can, try to stress to him to not draw attention to the area.
caller: okay.
operator: and you're from what department?
caller: utilities customer service. if you need any information, my phone number is...
operator: go ahead and send a call up for a deputy to meet with them.
caller: okay, we'll see you there very shortly.
operator: what type of vehicle is he going to be in?
caller: probably a small white colorado truck with orange county insignia on it.
operator: alright, a white colorado truck with orange county markings. we'll see you there very shortly.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling from 1109 east alameda. there's been a shooting. i just shot a man who was attacking me.
operator: is he injured?
caller: he's down and hurt bad.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: my name is edwin waters.
operator: what's the telephone number you're calling from, sir?
caller: 970-209-6887. please, hurry.
operator: do you still have the gun in your hand?
caller: i set it on the table right here. please come quick.
operator: i understand, we're going to get someone out there, okay?
caller: yes, please.
operator: can you verify the address for me one more time?
caller: 1109 east alameda.
operator: are you with the patient now?
caller: his brother is. i'm about 15 feet away.
operator: how old is the patient?
caller: i'm going to guess 45.
operator: is he awake?
caller: i don't know. his brother is talking to him.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i don't know. this is crazy. i've never done this kind of stuff before.
operator: i understand. i just need to ask these questions, okay? stay calm.
caller: i am.
operator: is there any serious bleeding?
caller: i'm sure. i don't know. i shot until the gun quit shooting.
operator: is he completely alert?
caller: i have no idea. i have not gone over.
operator: what part of the body was injured?
caller: it's dark out here. i think i shot him in the chest.
operator: is there more than one wound?
caller: i'm sure. i just started shooting until it quit.
operator: thank you. i'm going to give you some instructions for the ambulance, okay? stay on the line with me.
caller: okay.
operator: do not pull out the bullet. reassure him that help is on the way.
caller: help is on the way. the ambulance is coming right now.
operator: don't let him have anything to eat or drink. it might make him sick or cause problems for the doctor.
caller: okay. i'm sure he doesn't want to eat or drink now.
operator: do not move him unless it's absolutely necessary. tell him to stay still and wait for help.
caller: okay.
operator: i want you to watch him closely. if he becomes less awake or vomits, turn him on his side.
caller: okay.
operator: have someone meet the paramedics, and if he gets worse in any way, call us back immediately.
caller: i hear the ambulance coming.
operator: i'll stay on the line with you until they get there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you said you put the weapon down, right?
caller: yes, i put the gun down and ejected and dropped the clip out of it. it's laying here on the table.
operator: what caliber is the gun?
caller: a .22.
operator: is this in your house or outside?
caller: it was right at the back door, where i was in.
operator: where is he laying now?
caller: he's laying on the ground about eight feet away, still outside.
operator: which is the easiest way for them to enter the house?
caller: come up into the driveway. i'll put the porch light on. he's right behind the house.
operator: okay. come up alameda. you said you unloaded the weapon, correct?
caller: i don't know if i unloaded it fully, but i dropped the clip.
operator: just leave the weapon there and do not touch it.
caller: i will not touch it.
operator: what was he doing? why was he at your back door?
caller: he broke into my house while i was gone at my dad's funeral, and he's been yelling at me all day from across the parking lot. he was drinking with his friends and came rushing at me.
operator: what's he doing now? is he still with his brother?
caller: his brother is there with him, and another friend is around him too.
operator: do you know the person you shot?
caller: yes, he's the brother-in-law of the people i'm working for.
operator: did anybody else have any weapons?
caller: not that i know of.
operator: okay, let me know when they're there.
caller: they must be close because there's all kinds of noise outside.
operator: is it 1115 east alameda or 1109?
caller: 1109.
operator: okay, and they're in the backyard?
caller: yes.
caller: come through quickly. it's right here on the table.
operator: are they there with you, sir?
caller: yes, there's an officer here right now.
operator: i'm going to let you go now that the officers are there, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're very welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: what city is your emergency?
operator: what address?
caller: south 1180 west.
caller: please come quick.
operator: okay, tell me that one more time so i know i have it right.
caller: 220 south, 1180 west. utah. come please.
operator: okay. i have officers headed over there. tell me the phone number you're calling from, okay? i need to know what happened.
caller: i don't know... i just have blood everywhere.
operator: okay. i need you to calm down for a minute. i understand, 220 south, 1180 west. my partner is dispatching somebody. who is bleeding?
caller: i can't, i can't... you need to hurry!
operator: you need to slow down, calm down, okay? i can't understand you. talk a little quieter, okay?
caller: my wife, it's my wife!
operator: take a breath for me, okay? what is your name?
operator: i have officers on the way. i need to have some information from you, okay?
caller: i don't know what happened, she came out of the shower and i heard a pop, there's blood everywhere.
operator: i have officers and paramedics on the way, okay? can you take a breath? does she have a gunshot wound to the head?
caller: yes, i think so.
operator: okay. where is the gun right now?
caller: in the bathroom.
operator: who am i speaking to? what is your name?
caller: my name is colby.
operator: okay, colby. is she conscious?
caller: no, she's not. there's so much blood.
operator: where is the blood coming from? her head?
caller: yes, from her head.
operator: is this a house or a trailer park?
caller: it's a house. across from trafalgar.
operator: okay. is she still breathing?
caller: i... i don't know.
operator: i have an officer outside trying to find you. can you go outside and find him?
caller: yes, i'm going.
operator: go out and get the officer so he can help you, okay? my officer is outside.
operator: hello? is that the officer on scene?
caller: yeah, that's the officer.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my neighbor's house is burning down at 312 washington avenue.
operator: is anybody inside?
caller: i don't know. i'm finding out right now.
operator: okay, we are on our way. keep everyone away from the house.
caller: they said stay away from the house. is everybody out?
caller: they're getting somebody out right now. they're looking for the little boy, avon.
operator: how old is he?
caller: there's an 18-month-old baby in there.
operator: 18-month-old?
caller: yes.
caller: we need help immediately.
operator: we've already dispatched help, okay? let me know when they get him out, or if they have gotten him out.
caller: they're going in for the baby.
operator: okay, i don't want anybody getting hurt.
caller: well, they're going in anyway for the baby. the mom just passed out.
operator: is she outside?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: yes, but she's tough.
caller: no, she's up. the baby's inside the house.
operator: he's only 18 months old and the whole house is going up.
operator: do we know where he's at in the house?
caller: they don't know where he is. they're trying to get him.
operator: okay, let me know what happens.
caller: they haven't got him yet. they can't get the door open. okay, bam. they got the door open.
operator: we already have help on the way. let me know what's going on.
caller: the whole house is burning down. we're trying to put it out with our hose, but if you don't hurry, we're going to lose our house.
operator: we can't come any faster than with lights and sirens. we're coming as fast as we can.
caller: i know. oh my god. there's black smoke everywhere.
operator: i'm so sorry. we are on our way. just take a deep breath for me.
caller: oh my god. they've got about 15 people going in to get the baby.
operator: they don't need all those people going in there. it's dangerous.
caller: well, they're going in. they're looking in every room. oh my god, he's only 18 months.
caller: they can't get in there. they can't get in to where the baby is.
operator: we've already sent help. can you stay outside?
caller: i can't find my way. nobody can get in. oh my god.
operator: help is on the way. keep everyone away from the house.
caller: we're trying. they aren't listening. my house might burn down too. bye.
operator: stay safe. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: building fire. residential fire at 3722 caracas court.
operator: can you confirm the address?
caller: yes, 3722 caracas court, cross street of cornwood, beat 803.
operator: alright, we're dispatching units now. battalion 2, engine 2, engine 8, truck 2, fireman 1, and volunteers are on the way. are you safe?
caller: yes, but there's an active shooting as well. officer down, need ems immediately.
operator: everyone back away from the scene immediately. all units, clear all traffic, emergency only. active shooting in progress. officer down. do you have a location for the shooter?
caller: shooter is on the corner of caraway and caracas.
operator: understood. all units, be advised, shooter located at caraway and caracas. proceed with caution. engine 2, have you cleared the scene?
caller: engine 2 has cleared the scene. no injuries reported.
operator: 10-4. all units, give me a par.
caller: engine 2 and truck 2 have par, no injuries reported.
operator: 10-4. fireman 1, county ems is responding with two units. everyone stay off the channel except for the first responding unit.
caller: fireman 1 here. we have picked up truck 2's company and evacuated the area. standing by at bentley and woodhill.
operator: 10-4, bentley and woodhill. ems, are you on scene?
caller: yes, we're here. we're trying to reach the officer down now.
operator: 10-4. med units, proceed with caution. scene is secure for medics.
caller: med unit approaching the officer down. do we have another medic?
operator: 10-4, another medic is on the way. all tfd units, back out of the area. shooter is still active.
caller: we have a visual on the shooter. we're backing away now.
operator: 10-4. all units, back away from the scene immediately.
caller: units are out of the area. waiting for further instructions.
operator: command, fire med 1, go ahead.
caller: shooter is down. scene is secure. need units to move in. suspect has been hit several times.
operator: 10-4. all units, proceed with caution. secure the scene and assist the injured.
caller: med unit approaching the officer down. shooter is secure.
operator: 10-4. engine 2, are you back on scene?
caller: engine 2 arriving back on scene. laying line now for the house fire.
operator: copy that. all units, continue with fire suppression and assist with any injuries.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, we're at a pool and i have a little girl that says she's drowning. she's not breathing.
operator: are you trying cpr right now?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. where are you?
caller: we're at lake uchee pool.
operator: lake uchee pool? do you know the exact address?
caller: no, i'm not sure of the address. hold on one second.
caller: hello? yes, we're at the uchi swimming pool.
operator: uchi swimming pool? okay, we're trying to get help on the way right now.
caller: hurry, we're doing cpr on her right now.
operator: okay, we'll get somebody there as soon as we can.
caller: we're doing cpr on her now, she's not breathing. she's got something stuck in her throat and she was in the water.
operator: can you hold on a minute, please?
operator: caller still on the line, child not breathing at lake uchee pool.
caller: yes, she's turning blue.
operator: they're supposed to be on their way. are they there yet?
caller: no, they're not here yet. we don't know if she's breathing or not.
caller: okay, they're here, they're here.
operator: are they there now?
caller: yes.
operator: alright. sweetie, help is there. you're going to be okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my name is gioravar and i'm at plaza and i-35 travel plaza because they were trying to kill me.
operator: okay, is somebody with you now? are they trying to kill you now?
caller: no, but i know they're going to follow me, because they tried to follow me.
operator: what hotel were you in?
caller: plaza inn, room 167.
operator: what's your name?
caller: gavara.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 19.
operator: and are you going to be at this address?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: okay, we'll get an officer over there.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm in the car, because my husband shot someone.
operator: your husband shot someone?
caller: yes, i'm in the cop car, and they're trying to kill me. please help.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in the cop car.
operator: if you're in the cop car, then you're going to be safe.
caller: no, but they are looking for me. please help.
operator: what do the people look like who are trying to hurt you?
caller: there are several of them running around.
operator: where are they?
caller: one of them is near the south side.
operator: is this the person the officers are looking for?
caller: yes, i think so.
operator: can you describe him? is he black, white, hispanic?
caller: he's tall with blonde hair.
operator: what is he wearing?
caller: a black shirt with blue lettering and jeans.
operator: listen, they're saying they have a guy in custody. is there another one near the cop car?
caller: yes, there's another one.
operator: okay, you need to talk into the phone because i can't hear you well.
caller: i'm sorry. i'm just very scared.
operator: i understand, but i need information. do you see an officer?
caller: no, i don't.
operator: i have about 20 officers right there and you don't see one of them?
caller: please, just send someone.
operator: oklahoma 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i was just calling and saw someone running around.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i'm at plaza inn.
operator: are you the lady that's in the back of the cop car?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, do you not see an officer there?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: randy willis's package store on highway 10 west.
operator: what's the problem?
caller: i live right behind him, and his burglar alarm went off. i called down there because i saw him just get in the store, and i saw somebody run behind the store. i think somebody's in there with him now.
operator: okay, hold on for me. you said randy's in the store?
caller: yes.
operator: and you saw somebody run from the back of the store?
caller: yeah, there's somebody in there with him because i heard somebody threatening him. i had him on the phone to see if he was okay, and i heard somebody in there threatening him.
operator: so you heard somebody in the store?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, hold on one second. which way did they go?
caller: they went out the back door, but i can still hear them with randy. i kept hearing him say, 'pull up your gd shirts.' i called to see if randy was okay.
operator: what's your address?
caller: i live right behind the store.
operator: what is your name?
caller: melinda dellinger. hey, those two just went that way.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: okay, tell me exactly what you've seen.
caller: i live right behind the store. i heard the burglar alarm go off at 3:16, so i grabbed my cell phone and called his house. he lives two houses behind me. i told his wife the alarm was going off, and she said okay. i kept looking out the window to see if i saw any cars leave. then i saw randy pull in; as soon as he pulled in, two guys ran from the back of the store.
operator: could you tell what they looked like?
caller: no, it was dark out there. one had a big coat on, looked like a big guy.
operator: can you tell what color the coats were?
caller: no, they may have been dark brown. i'm not really sure.
operator: which way did you see them go?
caller: directly in between my house and the woods. i live right behind the store.
operator: was that before or after you heard somebody threaten him?
caller: that was before i heard someone threaten him. when i saw them go up, i was concerned because i didn't see any vehicles. so i called his cell phone.
operator: what's randy's cell phone number?
caller: oh, lord. i can't even remember now. hold on one second.
operator: are you able to check on your phone to see what it is?
caller: i don't know how to do that.
operator: you can go into the phone book on your phone and it should say details. click on that and it should have the number.
caller: if i call you back, will it cut us off?
operator: it may cut us off. if it does, just call back on 999.
caller: i will.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we had a break-in on highway 10 west, randy willis's store.
operator: are you randy?
caller: no, there's been shots fired. somebody is down. we need an ambulance now.
operator: randy willis's store on highway 10 west?
caller: yes, 9029.
operator: somebody's been shot?
caller: yes.
operator: is the shooter still there?
caller: yes, he's the owner. they broke in and beat him up. he shot them.
operator: so, randy is the shooter?
caller: yes, randy shot the assailants.
operator: hold on for a minute. are you still there?
caller: yes, one is in the parking lot.
operator: are you randy?
caller: i'm his son.
operator: what is your name?
caller: dennis willis. my dad is bleeding.
operator: where is he bleeding?
caller: his face.
operator: was he shot in the face?
caller: no, my dad shot the other guy who was shot in the chest.
operator: we've got an ambulance on the way. your dad shot the two assailants?
caller: yes, they tried to shoot him first. he wrestled the gun away and shot them.
operator: where were they shot?
caller: one in the chest and one in the face.
operator: do you know the people who broke in?
caller: my dad said he had seen them before.
operator: alright, we've got help on the way. stay on the phone with me.
caller: they're here now.
operator: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, this is an emergency. i'm a cab driver. this guy said his friend died on the road, but i don't see him. we're at rosedale park.
operator: you're at rosedale park?
caller: yes. he's crying and saying his friend died here, but i don't see anything.
operator: your friend is what?
caller: i don't see anything, but he's crying. he keeps saying his friend died here.
operator: is he hurt? where exactly are you in rosedale park?
caller: rosedale park, kansas city, kansas, at mission road.
operator: can i speak with your friend, please? is he there?
caller: whoa, he's not my friend. i'm a cab driver. come on, talk to me. come on.
caller: no, at rosedale park, he got electrocuted. he got electrocuted by a bad ground wire.
operator: sir, i understand rosedale park. can you calm down and tell me what's happening?
caller: at the tennis courts at rosedale park. my friend got electrocuted by a bad ground wire. come here immediately.
caller: i cannot get him off without being electrocuted myself. come here right now.
operator: sir, i need you to calm down. i understand you're at rosedale park, kansas city. what's going on there?
caller: he's being electrocuted by a bad wire. he's stuck and being electrocuted to death.
operator: okay, someone's being electrocuted. stay with him if you can do so safely. can you describe exactly where you are in the park?
caller: mission road, at the tennis courts.
operator: alright, i understand your location. help is on the way. are you safe?
caller: i don't know. i'm here for him because he doesn't have a phone. i called.
operator: okay, stay with him if you can do so safely. can you see any police or emergency vehicles?
caller: i see one police car. it passed by.
operator: alright, help is on the way. stay calm and try to keep him as calm as possible. they'll be there soon.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have a pursuit.
operator: okay, where is this taking place?
caller: taking a left on pacheco from st. michael's.
caller: 75 miles per hour.
caller: turning right onto siringo.
operator: turning right onto siringo from pacheco?
caller: yeah.
operator: forty-four, be advised. he's turning right onto siringo from pacheco. pursuit in progress.
caller: 10-4, headed towards santa fe high school.
operator: can you confirm if they're heading towards santa fe high school?
operator: what kind of car is it?
caller: it's going to be a honda, 2010-2012.
operator: 10-4.
caller: a 10-hundred?
operator: yeah. what's your location now?
caller: 42.
operator: east or westbound?
caller: he's going toward, passing yucca, going on siringo.
operator: can you repeat that?
caller: going towards siringo.
operator: and the reason for the pursuit?
caller: 42, you cut out.
operator: can you repeat your last location?
operator: what are the speeds?
caller: he's going 40 now.
caller: 40 miles per hour?
caller: yeah. there's a pd unit behind him.
operator: can i get the reason for the pursuit?
caller: i'm not too sure.
caller: turning right on north caminos.
operator: on north caminos?
caller: yeah.
caller: advise two occupants, one male, one female.
caller: turning left on ferrell circle.
operator: left on ferrell circle.
operator: 10-4.
caller: left on caya federal.
operator: 10-4, left on caya federal.
caller: 42.
caller: he's going 42, 10-4.
operator: what's the reason for the pursuit?
caller: in santa fe 42.
operator: what's the reason for the pursuit?
caller: he's not in contact with me right now.
caller: 10-444 en route.
operator: advise the commanders that they're going to need a reason for the pursuit or they're not continuing.
scenario:fire
caller: okay, i'm trying to get it.
caller: santa fe 42, what's the reason for the pursuit?
operator: okay.
caller: hello, general conchieco.
caller: santa fe.
caller: caya fedros.
operator: 10-4.
operator: santa fe 42, what's your location?
operator: okay, sounds like he's out with the suspect.
operator: 42, what's your location?
operator: do you have an officer out with the suspect?
caller: let me ask.
caller: camino carlos rey and las casitas.
operator: santa fe 44, camino carlos rey and las casitas.
caller: shots fired, shots fired.
caller: shots fired.
operator: 10-4, shots fired. we need an ambulance at that location.
operator: do you know who was hit?
caller: 10-442, do you know who was hit?
caller: going to be on camino carlos rey and las casitas, correct?
caller: las casitas, yes.
operator: okay.
operator: do you know who was hit?
caller: female is not responding. vehicle disabled.
operator: 10-4, female not responding. camino carlos rey and las casitas. and the vehicle is disabled.
operator: can you put me on hold real quick?
caller: okay.
caller: thank you.
operator: okay, i'm back. do you want me to send more officers to your location?
operator: do you have any more information on the patient?
caller: not at this moment. he hasn't responded to me.
caller: i have two people en route.
caller: we also have a few more officers responding.
operator: can you tell me exactly where on caya casitas?
caller: do you know where the herb martinez park is?
operator: yes, right by herb martinez park?
caller: right. between siringo and camino carlos rey.
operator: got it, caya casitas and las casitas street.
caller: yes, caya casitas by vereda de pueblo.
operator: okay, i think i got it now.
operator: thank you, i appreciate it.
caller: no problem.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's somebody trying to get into my house. i have my gun out.
operator: okay, where is this happening?
caller: they're at the front door!
operator: ma'am, ma'am, calm down, okay? is he trying to get through your front door right now?
caller: yes, he's going around to the back door now. i think he's going to try to crash in.
operator: okay, ma'am, i need you to stay calm. what kind of weapon do you have?
caller: i have a .38 caliber handgun.
operator: okay, hold on a second. i'm getting officers dispatched to your location. where is he right now?
caller: he's at the back door now.
operator: ma'am, what's your address?
caller: 5-1-7-8-5 portage place, right next to the fire station.
operator: okay, stay where you are and do not put yourself in danger. is he inside the house now?
caller: he's trying to crash in. i don't want to shoot anybody!
operator: ma'am, please stay calm. we have officers on the way. can you describe him?
caller: he looks hurt, like he was in a car accident. he's screaming that someone is chasing him.
operator: okay, does he look like he needs medical attention?
caller: yes, he has an abrasion on his left side. he said his car crashed.
operator: alright, ma'am. are you holding him at gunpoint?
caller: yes, i don't want to hurt him, but i will if i have to.
operator: i understand. please stay very careful and do not shoot unless absolutely necessary. help is on the way.
caller: please hurry. i'm scared.
operator: ma'am, officers are almost there. i need you to listen to their instructions very carefully when they arrive.
caller: okay, he's still at the back door. he hasn’t come in yet.
operator: alright, we have an officer that just arrived. i need you to put the gun down when they get to you, okay?
caller: okay, i see them. the gun is down.
operator: great, stay put and follow the officers' instructions. i'm going to disconnect now that they're with you. stay safe.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just shot a police officer!
operator: okay, what's the address, ma'am?
caller: he's right in front of 14th street behind the shopping center.
operator: what shopping center, ma'am?
caller: the one on orange blossom trail.
operator: okay, what's your location exactly?
caller: he's directly across from me. please, i don't know if he's still there. oh god!
operator: okay, who is it? who got shot?
caller: it's a police officer. i don't know the car number.
operator: is he down, or what?
caller: he's down, he's down, he's flat down. he got three shots.
operator: he got three shots?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'm just... i'm telling you right now.
operator: okay. tell me where he is exactly.
caller: you know where the library is on orange blossom trail? he's directly in the back of there on forty fifth street.
operator: the library on orange blossom trail?
caller: yes, 45th street.
operator: 45th street. okay, hold on just a second. ma'am, is he still in the car?
caller: no, he's on the ground. he was out of the car doing a traffic stop.
operator: he was doing a traffic stop?
caller: yes, and the next thing i know i heard three shots.
operator: okay. what kind of truck was it?
caller: it's a white pickup truck. i don't know the number. like a four-door pickup truck.
operator: is it a four-door?
caller: i didn't pay much attention because it just looked like a traffic stop, so i went back inside.
operator: alright. do you see the officer out there?
caller: the police officer is on the ground, the pickup is gone. the guy shot him, put the gun back in his jacket, and he left.
operator: was the shooter a white male, black male?
caller: he was a white male. about six feet tall, stocky build.
operator: hold on just a second. stay on the line. is he dead?
caller: oh my god. i don't know. i didn't walk across to him. another police officer just arrived.
operator: okay, and they are checking on him now?
caller: yes, another officer is here. they're telling everyone to stay back.
operator: alright. can you tell me more about the shooter?
caller: he was wearing a white or creamish-colored jacket and dark pants.
operator: did you see what kind of gun he had?
caller: i didn't see the gun clearly. i just heard the shots.
operator: okay. what is your name, ma'am?
caller: i'm too scared to think straight. can you just send help, please?
operator: help is already on the way. just stay with me, okay?
operator: is there a deputy there now?
caller: yes, they're here. i think they are handling it now.
operator: alright, thank you for your information. stay safe, ma'am.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: on farragut. i'm following a vehicle northbound passing bowman.
operator: can you describe the vehicle?
caller: it's a black sedan. the driver might be sergio munoz.
operator: do you know if the driver is armed?
caller: yes, the driver has a shotgun and just fired shots out the window.
operator: where are you now?
caller: we're going eastbound on langley. the vehicle is making a u-turn and we're now heading southbound on gateway.
operator: stay on the line. i'm dispatching units to your location. are there any other occupants in the vehicle?
caller: there are two people in the trunk of the vehicle.
operator: police are on their way. please keep providing updates on your location.
caller: we're now southbound on 395. the driver just fired at another car.
operator: did anyone get hurt?
caller: it seems like the civilians are fine, but the car was hit.
operator: units are approaching your location. keep a safe distance and do not engage with the suspect.
caller: i will. we're passing silver ridge, heading towards gateway elementary school.
operator: understood. units are moving to intercept. is the suspect vehicle still moving southbound?
caller: yes, the driver appears to be reaching for something in the back seat now.
operator: police are informed. keep your distance and stay safe.
caller: he's made a u-turn again and is going southbound on langley.
operator: noted, additional units are being dispatched to your area. are you able to continue following safely?
caller: for now, yes. we're approaching china lake. he's driving erratically.
operator: be very cautious. we're coordinating with other agencies to get more units to your location. is the driver still armed?
caller: he appears to be. just fired again at another car. it's chaos here.
operator: stay safe and keep updating us on your location. additional units and a k-9 are being dispatched.
caller: we're now southbound on 395 passing garlock. speed is about 60 mph.
operator: understood, continue to stay back. units should be intercepting soon.
caller: he just fired multiple shots at passing vehicles. he's slowing down now.
operator: units are closing in. be extremely careful. we'll get through this.
caller: vehicle is stopping. the driver is on the phone.
operator: maintain your distance. police are almost there and they will handle the suspect.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i need somebody escorted out of my store right away. he's causing problems.
operator: okay, is he fighting with people?
caller: yeah, he's fighting with somebody right now.
operator: okay, is it a physical fight or verbal?
caller: verbal.
operator: what is the address we need to come out to?
caller: holy shit.
operator: what is the address?
caller: what is the address?
caller: he has a gun or a knife.
operator: okay. stay on the phone. what's the address?
caller: okay, okay, okay. the address is 1330 el paseo de saratoga.
operator: now what makes you think he has a gun or a knife?
caller: he just pulled it out.
operator: okay, but there's a difference. is it a gun?
caller: there's a gun.
operator: okay, stay on the phone. can you go somewhere safe?
caller: go, go, go, go, go, go. in the bathroom. go.
operator: okay, and so this guy... oh my god, he shot somebody.
caller: oh my god, oh my god.
caller: oh my god. holy shit.
operator: okay. are you safe?
caller: yeah, we're in the bathroom.
operator: okay, so this guy, is he white, black, hispanic, or asian?
caller: white.
operator: how old does he look?
caller: about 40.
operator: is he tall, short, or medium?
caller: medium.
operator: is he heavy, thin, or medium build?
caller: heavy.
operator: okay, what is he wearing?
caller: he's wearing a giant sweater and a giant's hat.
operator: a giants baseball cap?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me, okay? i want to get a really good description. i've got units on their way out there right now, okay? you're at pete's coffee at 1330 el paseo de saratoga?
caller: yes.
operator: let me just update this. did you see somebody get shot, or did you just hear him fire the gun?
caller: yes, somebody is shot.
operator: okay. so the guy who shot, is it a male or a female?
caller: i don't know.
operator: do we have any age or anything like that?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, i don't want you to go out there. i've got units on their way. i want to get a good description of this guy so we catch him, okay? so it's a white male adult. he's about 40 years old with a medium height and heavy build.
caller: yes.
operator: do you remember what color hair he has?
caller: dark short hair under his hat.
operator: did he come in a car? do you remember?
caller: no, i don't know.
operator: that's fine. he's inside the store, and he's wearing a giants baseball cap and a giant sweatshirt, right?
caller: yes.
operator: lock the door, please. we've got units in the area, okay? i don't want anybody getting hurt, so if you're in a safe place, i want you to stay there, all right?
caller: okay. we're in the back room, but he's gone.
operator: he left?
caller: he's gone, but somebody is shot.
operator: okay. so the person that's shot, is it a male or female?
caller: male.
operator: how old does he look? around 20, 30, 40?
caller: i don't know. oh my god.
operator: okay, can you shut the door?
caller: the police are here now.
operator: okay, and what is your name?
caller: my... the officer is here.
operator: okay, talk to the officer. thank you for calling.
caller: thank you so much. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi. i'm kind of scared. there's a man knocking on my windows and trying to get into my house.
operator: what city are you in?
caller: tamarack, florida.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 7160, south state boulevard.
operator: do you know this person?
caller: yes, he's my ex.
operator: okay, and he is not welcome at your house, correct?
caller: yes, he knows that.
operator: and he's trying to get into your house right now?
caller: yes, and he's not letting me or my roommates be at peace. he's knocking on my windows. i've been telling him to leave for the past hour, and he hasn't been listening.
operator: okay. is it a house or an apartment?
caller: it's like a villa.
operator: alright. is he white, black, hispanic?
caller: he's hispanic.
operator: what's his name?
caller: mario.
operator: do you know what he's wearing?
caller: last time i saw him, about three hours ago, he was wearing a black shirt and blue jeans. i'm scared he might be violent.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is anne.
operator: does he have a history of violence?
caller: yes, he does.
operator: do you know if he has any weapons?
caller: not that i know of.
operator: okay. stay on the line with me.
caller: oh my god, he just broke my window!
operator: ma'am, is he inside your house now?
caller: yes, he just broke into my house!
operator: alright, can you safely get out of the house?
caller: no, i can't! he's in here!
operator: okay, ma'am. the police are on their way. stay in a safe place and keep talking to me.
caller: okay. he's yelling at me. he has a knife!
operator: stay calm, and keep yourself safe. the police will be there shortly.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, burglars are breaking into a house next door.
operator: what's the address there, sir?
caller: 7418. not my address, but next door, okay?
operator: yes, sir. do you want me to stop them?
caller: i've got a shotgun. do you want me to stop them?
operator: no, don't do that. there isn't any property worth shooting somebody over, okay?
caller: well, they're breaking in right now.
operator: they're inside the house?
scenario:traffic
caller: yes, i'm watching them.
operator: what color is the house they're breaking into?
caller: it's kind of a red brick right next to a two-story brick home, my home.
operator: all right. what do the guys look like? are they white, black, hispanic?
caller: they're black, two of them.
operator: two black males? what are they wearing?
caller: one's got a green shirt, white tennis shoes, and blue jeans, and both of them are inside the house right now.
operator: what is the other one wearing, sir?
caller: i didn't get a look at the other one. but hurry up, man. catch these guys, will you? because i'm not going to let them go.
operator: stay on the phone with me until we get someone over there, okay? don't hang up.
caller: i'm not hanging up, but i'm telling you right now, i don't like this. this is ridiculous.
operator: i understand, but we don't want you getting hurt. do you see which window they went through?
caller: the side, on the side where the gate is. you know, where the fence is, because nobody can see them.
operator: so that would be the right-hand side, looking from the front?
caller: yes.
operator: man, this is scary. i can't believe this is happening in this neighborhood. can you see anything at all?
caller: no, i just see where they went in the house. i can't see inside the house.
operator: i understand that, but you can see where they entered?
caller: yes.
operator: so they might slip out the same way. can you see the front of the house?
caller: i can't see the front. i'll bring my shotgun with me, i swear to god.
operator: don't go out there. stay inside the house.
caller: if i go out there, what am i going to have?
operator: no, i don't want you to go out there. i just asked if you could see anything out front, like a vehicle they arrived in?
caller: no.
operator: alright. let me know if you see anything at all. stay inside and don't go out there. are you still there, mr. horn?
caller: i'm here. i can't see the front of the house. i can't tell if they're getting away or not.
operator: that's alright. we have officers on the way. do you know your neighbors well?
caller: no, not really. i know the neighbors on the other side well. if it was their house, i'd have done something already.
operator: mr. horn, listen to me carefully. we have officers on the way. do not go outside the house and do not have that gun in your hand when officers are there.
caller: i have a right to protect myself, and the laws have changed. i have a right to protect my property.
operator: i understand, but it’s not worth risking your life over this.
caller: he's coming out the window right now. i've got to stop them.
operator: don't go out the door. mr. horn, do not go outside.
caller: they just stole something. i'm going out the door.
operator: don't go out the door. do not go outside.
caller: this isn't right. they're getting away.
operator: property is not worth killing someone over. do not go outside. don't be shooting anybody.
caller: they got a bag, they're walking out the driveway.
operator: how big is the bag? which way are they going?
caller: i'm going outside to find out.
operator: don't go outside, mr. horn.
caller: here it goes. i'm going.
operator: 999, we need officers over here quickly. did you shoot someone, mr. horn?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: where are you right now?
caller: i'm inside the house at 7418.
operator: officers are arriving. put the gun down before you shoot an officer. there are officers outside without uniforms. do you understand?
caller: i'm in the front yard waving my hand.
operator: do you have a gun with you?
caller: no.
operator: do you see a uniformed officer?
caller: yes.
operator: lay down on the ground and do what the officers tell you.
caller: alright.
operator: where's the gun?
caller: in the house.
operator: where in the house?
caller: in a chair.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know. i'm going to be...
operator: can you please tell me your location and what is happening right now?
caller: b...b...bhopi. b...b...b... but if you will leave your name and number, i will be glad to get back with you. thank you.
operator: is there someone at your location who can come to the phone?
caller: yes, this is campbell county 999. we've got a 999 call from this resident. the alta vista police department is outside and needs someone to come to the door.
operator: okay, i need you to stay calm and follow their instructions. can you go to the door now?
caller: i'm... i'm...i don't know.
operator: it's important for your safety that you listen to the police. they are there to help you. are you armed with a handgun?
caller: high meti... selbst... beatt... bhaddern... act... arma... on... windows... to... she... and... the... the...
operator: can you put the handgun away safely? the officers are there to check on you. please let me know if you have put the gun away.
caller: it's on right now but if you will leave your name and number, i will be glad to get back with you. thank you.
operator: for your safety and the safety of the officers, it's important to put the gun away. can you do that now?
caller: yes, this is campbell county 999, we have officers outside of your residence.
operator: please follow the officers' instructions and go to the door unarmed. they are trying to check on you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, we just got a call that somebody had shot somebody in a house on moses.
operator: somebody what?
caller: somebody shot three people in the house on moses, and we just came over here knocking because we know them.
operator: they're dead in the house?
caller: yes, they're all dead.
operator: okay, what's your name, ma'am?
caller: my name's amanda hill. we're sitting in front of the house right now. we're on moses.
operator: what's the address?
caller: i don't see an address on the house, but we're right next to 812... 814.
operator: 814 east moses?
caller: yes, east moses. and there's three people dead in the house.
operator: you said you got a call about the shooting?
caller: yes, we got a call saying that three people were shot and that the house got caught on fire. we came down here because we know the people.
caller: then he called back and said he was the one that shot them. we came over to check on them. nobody answered, so my boyfriend went in, and they're all shot. they're all dead.
caller: i know one of them's liz, another one's albert. i know some of the names.
operator: and you're at 814 east moses?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, meet the officer in the street, ma'am.
caller: okay, we'll go back out to the street.
operator: do you know who the person is that shot them?
caller: who am i speaking with?
operator: this is robert with cushing police.
caller: we got a call from a family member. they said that chad barlow was freaking out and said that he had shot everybody in the house and set it on fire. one of our friends lives there.
caller: so we were worried about our friends and came over here. we saw the house, and all the lights were on. chad's on meth and freaking out, so we came to check.
operator: alright, hang on a second. just stay in the street when the officer gets there.
caller: we are in the street right now. my girlfriend's standing in the street.
caller: i knocked on the door, the door was cracked open, so i pushed it open with my sleeve. everybody's dead. albert's shot, liz is shot in the head.
caller: right now, there's a car driving by with no lights on. it's driving really slow and has come to a stop.
caller: get behind the truck, babe.
caller: are you there?
operator: yes, i'm here.
caller: okay, they're cops. never mind. i'm sorry.
operator: alright, officers are there now.
caller: should i hang up now?
operator: yes, sir, that will be fine.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, keep going to, no.
operator: hello?
caller: what's your address?
operator: i can barely hear you. could you repeat your location?
caller: i’m at the burger king on quentin beach boulevard.
operator: okay, what's the problem?
caller: hello?
operator: go ahead, sir.
caller: hello. i’m at burger king on quentin beach boulevard.
operator: okay, what’s going on?
caller: i don't have the exact address, but i’m at the drive-thru. i placed an order, and when i got to the window, i told the lady i wanted lemonade. she said they don't have lemonade. i asked why she didn't tell me that before.
operator: are you in the drive-thru or inside the store?
caller: i’m in the drive-thru.
operator: are you blocking other customers?
caller: no, i’m in one of the spots. she’s making me wait for 15 minutes because she says i talk too much. the food is ready, but she's refusing to give it to me.
operator: what's your name?
caller: jean portion.
operator: jean, if the food is not done, it’s not done. if they are asking you to move, you need to move. you don't call 999 because you're unhappy with your order.
caller: the food is ready, but she says she’s making me wait because i was a bad customer.
operator: have you given them any money?
caller: no.
operator: have they given you any food?
caller: no.
operator: then you can drive away, sir. you don’t need to call 999 for this.
caller: i moved the car but i’m still hungry. why are they refusing to give me the food?
operator: sir, you can’t block their drive-thru. just wait in the parking lot or leave. this is not a police matter.
caller: okay, i’m moving the car.
operator: are you still in the parking lot?
caller: yes, but i don't like the way she’s treating customers. i’m here to buy food and she’s being rude.
operator: i understand, but this is not a reason to call 999. if you have a customer service issue, you need to speak to the management, not the police. 999 is for emergencies only.
caller: okay, i understand.
operator: do you need anything else?
caller: no, i just wanted to let you know. i’m leaving now.
operator: alright, thank you. please don’t call 999 for non-emergencies in the future.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody just stabbed my baby. please get here.
operator: they just did what?
caller: stabbed my baby.
operator: do you know who it was, ma'am?
caller: yes, it's my ex, my boyfriend.
operator: what's your address?
caller: 1415 cane.
operator: does he need an ambulance, ma'am?
caller: no, i mean, no, he doesn't need an ambulance.
operator: what's your name?
caller: shavon thomas.
operator: shavon, what's your phone number?
caller: you know what? i'm lying. i did it.
operator: does he need an ambulance, ma'am?
caller: no, he doesn't need one.
operator: you said your baby was stabbed. is it your son?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's two.
operator: he is the one that was stabbed?
caller: yes.
operator: he was stabbed with what?
caller: a knife.
operator: is he bleeding? where is he bleeding from?
caller: not much.
operator: where is he bleeding from?
caller: not much. he's not bleeding that much.
operator: where's your boyfriend at?
caller: i think he's coming through the back door.
operator: so your boyfriend stabbed him?
caller: yes.
operator: who else is in the house?
caller: nobody.
operator: and your boyfriend is outside?
caller: yes.
operator: you guys were fighting?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, we're going to send officers out there, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: you're at 1415 cane avenue, right?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, we'll send somebody up there. stay on the phone, okay?
caller: you know what? i did it. i did it, okay? i did it.
operator: stay on the phone, okay?
caller: no, i have to find some money. i don't care.
operator: hello, ma'am?
caller: nope.
operator: hello?
caller: i knew it.
operator: what's the problem?
caller: i knew it.
operator: you knew what?
caller: i knew it.
operator: do you need the police?
caller: no.
operator: how old are you, shavon?
caller: 33.
operator: where do you live?
caller: 1058.
operator: who lives at 1415 cane?
caller: nobody.
operator: my boyfriend is right here.
caller: can i speak to him?
operator: do you take medication?
caller: i used to. prozac.
operator: do you still take it?
caller: no, i didn't take it today.
operator: where are you?
caller: i did take it today.
operator: shavon?
caller: i ain't hanging up.
operator: who do you live with?
caller: keep thinking that.
operator: are you home by yourself?
caller: yep.
operator: does anyone live with you?
caller: keep thinking that.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, um, i think i may have found possibly a body in a trash bag.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: and then there's a girl missing from ohio.
operator: yeah, where are you? and what makes you think it's possibly her?
caller: um, well, i can smell something. i was doing some paperwork, turned around, and smelled it.
caller: i could see, like, you can tell there was a smell coming from the bag.
caller: the bag looked unusual, so i decided to take a closer look.
caller: there's a trash bag back there, and the only reason i checked is because it seemed out of place.
caller: so i decided to poke it a bit to see what was inside.
caller: i couldn't tell what it was at first, but then i saw a hooters shirt. i could read 'hooters' across the shirt.
operator: okay. and is there definitely more than just clothing in there?
caller: oh, yeah. at first it seemed like there might be something else, like a turtle or something.
caller: but when i saw the shirt material, i knew i should call.
operator: okay, and the smell is really bad, right?
caller: yeah, yeah.
operator: and your name is?
caller: it's [name].
operator: alright. we'll get a deputy right out to you, okay?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have reports of a fight and potential gunshots at 7512 south howell avenue.
operator: did you witness any of this? can you provide more details?
caller: a bald male with glasses may have shot someone. i didn't see the shooter, but people are saying there's a man with a gun.
operator: can you confirm the location? 7512 south howell avenue?
caller: yes, at the sikh temple there. we need an ambulance. i do not see a shooter anywhere.
operator: we are dispatching fire and medical units to your location. stay safe and do not approach the scene. do you see any victims?
caller: yes, there's a victim down in the front yard, there's still noise and shots being heard.
operator: understood. can you describe the shooter?
caller: all i know is he might be a bald male with glasses, and he could have gone inside the building.
operator: got it. please stay at a safe distance and keep yourself protected. more responders are on the way.
scenario:medical
caller: alright, thank you. i'll wait here.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, this is hpd.
operator: hello, hpd. how can i help you?
caller: we got a pursuit going on. it's heading towards us.
operator: uh-oh, okay. what vehicle are you pursuing?
caller: it's a white bonneville, occupied by two white females.
operator: where are they now?
caller: they went through the gate close to martin road.
operator: okay, a white bonneville went through the martin road gate, occupied by two white females. do you have a license plate?
caller: yes, i do. it is 47y4444.
operator: got it. are you still pursuing them?
caller: yes, one of our unmarked units, our narcotics guys, is following them.
operator: alright, i'll notify the units. anything else you need?
caller: no, just wanted to keep you informed.
operator: understood. be safe out there. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire in the center of lake megantic.
operator: okay, sir. at lake megantic, what is the address?
caller: it's on laval road.
operator: what is burning?
caller: it's a huge fire. several buildings are burning.
operator: are these residential buildings or something else?
caller: it's the center of the complex.
operator: okay, sir. emergency services are on their way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i just saw a train that exploded on rue millette.
operator: a train exploded on rue millette?
caller: yes.
operator: emergency services are already aware and on their way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there are explosions on rue millette near lake megantic.
operator: yes, you're at least the 30th person that has called. emergency services are responding.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i made a call about a fire earlier, and it's on rue millette.
operator: yes, we are aware. emergency services are already there.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a fire on rue laval near the school.
operator: on rue de lour near the school secretary? is this close to rue laval?
caller: yes, it's just down the road from there.
operator: okay, emergency services are on their way.
caller: thank you, i'm right in front of it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's an enormous fire at lake megantic.
operator: stay away from the fire. emergency services are coming.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a house on fire near lake megantic, on champlain road.
operator: what's the house number?
caller: 4784 champlain.
operator: emergency services are on their way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we've been evacuated due to a train explosion. we're in the center of the city.
operator: are you safe? are you able to leave the city?
caller: yes, we are evacuating now.
operator: stay safe and follow the instructions of emergency personnel.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're in a plane that's landing in the hudson river.
operator: how many people are on board?
caller: two aboard.
operator: do you have life preservers?
caller: we have life preservers.
operator: are you in the water now?
caller: we're in the water, the plane is filling up.
operator: are you still in the plane?
caller: yes, we're still in the plane.
operator: can you get out of the plane? can you open the door?
caller: we're going to the rear of the plane, but it's filling up fast.
operator: where in the hudson are you?
caller: we're in the hudson river, near the alpine tower.
operator: are you in the middle of the hudson?
caller: yes, in the middle of the hudson.
operator: are you still in the plane?
caller: yes, the plane is taking on water.
operator: is it possible for you to get out?
caller: we can get out if we have to.
operator: i need you to get out of the plane if it's going down. get out now.
caller: alright, we're going down. we're getting out.
operator: i need you to get out of the plane and let me know when you're out.
caller: alright, i'm out of the plane.
operator: where is the plane? are you both out?
caller: yes, we're both out. the water is freezing.
operator: i understand, but you need to get away from the plane so you're not trapped.
caller: we're out of the plane.
operator: are you going to make it to shore?
caller: i don't think we can make it to shore.
operator: we have officers and boats en route to your location.
caller: okay, i think i'm losing you.
operator: can you stay on the phone with me?
caller: yes, we're out, and we have life preservers.
operator: hold on, help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i need someone at 15012 spring street. union grove. i need an ambulance.
operator: okay, ma'am. what do you need the ambulance for?
caller: i have a boy that was underwater and he's not breathing.
operator: how old is the boy?
caller: uh, four.
operator: how long was he in the water?
caller: we don't know, like a couple of minutes.
operator: was he in a pool or...?
caller: yeah, swimming pool.
operator: okay, do you want to do cpr?
caller: i'm sorry, i can't hear you.
operator: do you want to do cpr, ma'am?
caller: um, they're trying right now. can you talk someone through it?
operator: yep, if you want to put someone on the phone with me.
caller: okay, scott, she's going to talk us through cpr.
caller: hello?
operator: hi, is he responding at all?
caller: no, there's no pulse.
caller: i'm pushing. i'm doing chest compressions.
operator: okay, you need to make sure his mouth and airway are not blocked.
caller: okay.
operator: i need you to put one hand on his forehead and the fingers of your other hand under the bony part of his chin and gently tilt the head back. just a little.
caller: okay.
operator: do you see him breathing at all?
caller: no, he's still not breathing.
operator: okay, i need you to give two breaths, one second each. make sure the chest rises.
caller: okay. come on, come on.
caller: his sister is crying in the background.
operator: i understand, but i need you to stay focused. is he breathing now?
caller: no, there's still no pulse.
operator: okay, keep doing chest compressions. push hard and fast, about 2 inches deep and 100-120 compressions per minute.
caller: okay, i'm doing it.
caller: wait, i think he's moving.
operator: do you feel him breathing? is there a pulse?
caller: yes, i think i feel a pulse. he's breathing!
operator: great, roll him onto his side and keep his airway open. continue to monitor him closely.
caller: okay, we're doing that. is the ambulance coming?
operator: yes, they are on their way. how is his skin color?
caller: kind of hard to see, but he looks okay. he's breathing.
operator: is the deputy there yet?
caller: yes, he's here.
operator: okay, i'm going to keep you on the line until the ambulance arrives.
caller: that's fine. thank you.
operator: you're doing great. they should be there any second.
caller: i hear the sirens. they're coming.
operator: good. just stay calm, help is almost there.
caller: thank you so much for your help.
operator: you're welcome. you're doing a great job.
caller: they are here now.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go now. thank you for your help. goodbye.
caller: goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, yeah.
operator: hello, how can i help you?
caller: he's going down central parkway with my baby.
operator: okay, where are you at?
caller: i'm getting on central parkway now.
operator: okay, who's going down central parkway with your baby?
caller: my husband, he's got a mental problem. he doesn't live with me anymore. he's on drugs.
operator: okay, where did you last see him?
caller: i saw him when i got home. he snatched my baby.
operator: this is what you're going to have to do: you're going to have to pull over if you want police assistance.
caller: i can't hear you.
operator: you're going to have to pull over if you want to speak with police.
caller: they're not going to go on a high-speed chase. he does not have the right to have my child. he's on drugs.
operator: but he's your husband. you need to explain why he's not capable. do you have custody of your children?
caller: yes, i have legal custody. he has mental problems.
operator: ma'am, you need to pull over for the police to assist you.
caller: i'm pulling over now.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is lynette. i already told them he has mental problems.
operator: have you already called the police before this?
caller: i called 9-9-9.
operator: officers are on scene on mcmickin waiting for you.
caller: i'm on central parkway with the baby.
operator: if you're moving, we can't send police out. we need you to stay in one location.
caller: but i don't even know where he is.
operator: if charges need to be pressed, they will find him. we need evidence to proceed.
caller: he has my baby.
operator: we already have an officer at your house. can you roll up your window or pull over?
caller: okay, what are you saying?
operator: we already have an officer on mcmickin waiting for you.
operator: we can't keep sending officers all over the place if you keep moving. we need you to be stationary.
caller: okay, i'm going back to mcmickin.
operator: that's all we need. if charges need to be pressed, they'll find him and put a warrant out.
caller: but that's my baby, and he's on drugs.
operator: i understand that you're upset, but we cannot go on a high-speed chase. we need you to stop for the police.
caller: okay, i'm going back now.
operator: do you need any other assistance?
caller: no, i'm going back now. thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: do you need police or paramedic?
operator: yes.
caller: no, i want to report a drug overdose.
operator: who had a drug overdose?
caller: pardon?
operator: who had a drug overdose?
caller: oh, this girl i'm...
operator: okay, is she there with you?
caller: yeah, she's in my son's room.
operator: okay, where are you?
caller: okay, we're at ardell drive. palm beach gardens, florida, 33410.
operator: give me one moment, okay?
caller: yes.
operator: what did she overdose with?
caller: i don't know.
operator: can you confirm the address of your emergency?
caller: that's going to be ardell drive.
operator: and what's wrong?
caller: it's going to be a drug overdose.
operator: what's her name?
caller: pardon?
operator: what's the female's name?
caller: anastasia.
operator: how old is she?
caller: i think she's 18, 19, something like that.
operator: is she awake?
caller: oh, no, i think she's dead.
operator: is she cold to the touch?
caller: yeah, yeah, i think so. i'm pretty distraught over this whole thing.
operator: i understand. when was the last time she was seen?
caller: well, it's like she was here yesterday, and, you know, her car was parked here, and she was supposedly sleeping in my son's room. and i guess he got panicky because she passed away. and so she just passed away yesterday. and i found out just about an hour ago, and i've been in a panic ever since.
operator: this is your daughter?
caller: no, this is not mine. that's somebody else. that's my son. he got scared.
operator: so it's an acquaintance of your son?
caller: yeah.
operator: i understand. it's just terrible. i don't know what to say. i'm just my wife, and i just don't know what to do.
caller: i understand. all right.
operator: we'll have a unit on the way. you're pretty sure she's gone.
caller: oh, yeah. she's...
operator: i understand. i'm sorry you're in this predicament. i just don't, you know, it's like my whole life is over now. i don't know.
caller: but you know what to say. you know, i don't know what to do.
operator: we're going to send the people over there to help you. we'll be right there.
caller: okay. just make sure to do it. you know what's that now.
operator: is this waterway manor?
caller: yes, it is. that's right. it's off of palmwood.
operator: all right. and is this a house or an apartment?
caller: no, it's a house.
operator: all right. the police are on the way.
caller: okay. thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, um, they just broke into my house. they had guns. they told us to just stay on the floor.
operator: how many people are in the house with you?
caller: i was with my uncle and my little brother and sister.
operator: how old are you?
caller: uh, i'm eleven.
operator: are you home alone?
caller: no, i'm with my uncle.
operator: how many intruders did you see?
caller: i saw two of them, but my uncle thinks there were four.
operator: were they male or female?
caller: they were all male.
operator: were they white, black, or hispanic?
caller: black.
operator: did they leave on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: i don't know. they just told me to stay on the floor.
operator: okay. hold on just a second, okay?
scenario:domestic
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: is anyone hurt?
caller: no.
operator: where's your uncle?
caller: he's right next to me.
operator: did your uncle see if they left on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: he doesn't know.
operator: does your uncle know these people?
caller: no, he just came from pennsylvania.
operator: can you describe what they were wearing?
caller: they had bandanas on their faces. one had a black one, they had hats on, one had a green shirt under a black hoodie with red and white letters.
operator: were they wearing all black clothing?
caller: one of them had jeans. the other one had a black hoodie.
operator: the other person, what did they wear?
caller: he had a black hoodie too.
operator: okay. please stay on the phone with me.
caller: okay.
operator: were they skinny or larger?
caller: they were skinny.
operator: were they tall or short?
caller: they were tall.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me until my deputies come to your door, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: do you have a white or silver car in your driveway?
caller: yeah, it's white. it's my dad's car.
operator: okay. do you know if the intruders left through the front door?
caller: i think so. i heard glass break too, like a window.
operator: alright, stay away from the front door.
caller: okay.
operator: does your uncle speak english?
caller: he speaks spanish.
operator: okay, and he doesn't know the intruders?
caller: no, he just came from pennsylvania.
operator: you're doing a good job. hold on just a minute for me, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: do you have a back door?
caller: yes.
operator: i need you and everyone to exit through the back door. my deputies are all around the house.
caller: okay.
operator: is anyone else at home besides you and your uncle?
caller: my little brother and sister are here too.
operator: i need all of you to go out the back door now.
caller: okay.
operator: let me know when you are outside.
caller: my little sister is putting on her shoes.
operator: okay, just let me know when you are outside.
caller: okay.
operator: alright, you’re doing a great job. stay on the phone until the deputies reach you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: emergency dispatcher.
operator: what's the matter?
caller: what's the matter?
operator: do you need an ambulance?
operator: are you breathing okay?
operator: is there anybody else there with you?
operator: if there's somebody else there with you, can you put them on the phone?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: is this wheeler?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: and you need an ambulance?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay. if the phone sounds like i hang up, i'm not. i'm going to be dispatching an ambulance, okay?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, just stay on the phone with me.
caller: oh!
caller: wait a favor.
operator: who is that? is that the ambulance? can you hear them?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: can you get to the door and let them in?
operator: go to the door and let whoever that is talking, okay?
caller: you can't get to the door.
operator: okay, i'm sending an ambulance. don't hang up. you're going to hear some clicking. don't hang up.
caller: you're calling an ambulance.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm.
caller: mm.
caller: i warned you, mr. reuter.
caller: i'm going to shake.
caller: i'm afraid.
caller: wake up.
caller: i love you.
caller: i love you.
caller: are you afraid like i was afraid?
caller: you're insane.
caller: that's reality.
caller: what time is it?
caller: the end of the world is coming here, later.
caller: you're going to hell.
caller: that's what i sound good on time.
operator: okay, i'm back.
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, who is that?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: can i talk to that person?
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: who is that in the background? is that a relative?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: okay, why won't she come on the phone?
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: cool! just me?
caller: can you see why with me?
caller: wait a minute of this isn't really good.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: mm-hmm.
caller: come and be like that's something like that.
caller: that's for the wind point court.
caller: that's for those condos.
caller: i'm getting stuck in this.
caller: there's patience and actually right there.
caller: 2830s and wind point.
operator: okay. is that person, has that person been drinking?
caller: mm-mm.
caller: mm-mm-mm-hmm
caller: mm.
caller: you know, why was
caller: i'm gonna get out of this thing.
caller: mm.
operator: what's going out? what is she doing to you?
caller: mm.
caller: wait, b, wait, b, because this could be home at the world.
caller: oh, geez, but i do you could come here.
caller: what's off you in here?
caller: see anything in here.
operator: what's going on? what?
caller: what's going on? i've got to see what we're really.
caller: yes, me.
caller: oh, no. i don't see.
caller: oh, come.
caller: i want to hurt two.
caller: i won't hear too because you really
caller: this is hard for me to take her school because i'm
operator: there'll be someone there soon, there's an ambulance on the way, okay?
operator: just like you, hang on.
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: are you still there?
operator: are you still there?
operator: are you still there?
operator: hello?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, we're on the great salt lake, and our boat has tipped over.
operator: okay, where exactly are you?
caller: we're near the saltair marina, a little northwest of it.
operator: how many people are with you?
caller: just two of us.
operator: what are your names?
caller: i'm jason, and my friend is aaron.
operator: jason, can you see the marina from where you are?
caller: yeah, i can see the marina.
operator: what's your cell phone number?
caller: 864-2988.
operator: do you have life preservers on?
caller: no, we do not.
operator: are you still in the water or on top of the boat?
caller: i'm sitting on top of the flipped-over boat. my friend is barely hanging on.
operator: okay, we're getting someone out to you. stay on the phone with me.
caller: please hurry. it's freezing, and the waves are crashing over us.
operator: do you know if you're floating towards or away from the marina?
caller: we're floating back out, kind of west but still north of the marina.
operator: okay, hang on. we're getting more help.
caller: we're behind the saltair building, where they hold concerts, about a mile north of it.
operator: got it. we're sending a rescue team now. stay on the line.
caller: okay, just hurry.
operator: can you hear me?
caller: it's hard to hear. the wind is howling.
operator: we're almost there. hang tight and try to stay calm. help is on the way.
caller: we're trying. it's really cold and the waves are big.
operator: i know. just hang on. you might not see help until they're right on top of you.
caller: okay, we'll try to hold on.
operator: help is coming from multiple directions, so stay with me.
caller: alright, please hurry.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i want emergency what he were fighting.
operator: hello?
caller: hello. i can't take it out.
operator: can you hear me? what is your emergency?
caller: go? go, go, go. go! i can't move! oh my god! you can just open the door! open it!
operator: calm down. what's happening? are you trapped in the car?
caller: yes, we're trapped! it's turning! get out, get out, get out, get out.
operator: where are you? what is your location?
caller: i don't know. smoking or something, i don't know.
operator: okay, let me put you through to emergency services.
caller: hi, did you get a report that there's a limo on fire on the 92 bridge?
operator: hold on just a moment. which direction on 92?
caller: it's 92 going west.
operator: where exactly on 92?
caller: it's before foster city boulevard exit, right on the bridge.
operator: are you reporting that it's on fire?
caller: yeah, it's on fire.
operator: do you see smoke, flames, or both?
caller: yeah, flames, smoke, everything.
operator: are the flames coming from inside the vehicle?
caller: yes, from inside.
operator: chp, let me put you through to the fire department. please hold on for one moment, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: fire department, can you assist with a car fire on westbound 92 at the high rise? we have reports of flames coming from inside the vehicle.
caller: yes, i saw two people running around the area.
operator: okay, thank you. we have help on the way.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: okay, stay safe. bye.
caller: 999 emergency. what are you reporting?
operator: there's a fire on the san mateo bridge, and it's a limousine.
caller: which direction are you traveling, westbound or eastbound?
operator: i'm going towards hayward, but the limousine is on the other side going towards san mateo.
caller: is it right when you start coming down off of the?
operator: yes.
caller: what lane number do you think it's stopped in?
operator: it's in the number one lane.
caller: okay, we are dispatching highway patrol. thank you so much.
operator: thank you, have a good drive. goodbye.
caller: it's a limousine.
operator: and it's on the right-hand shoulder?
caller: correct. westbound on the high rise.
operator: what color is the limo?
caller: it looks like white with a black top.
operator: is there anyone in the vehicle?
caller: i saw two people running around the area.
operator: we are getting calls and we have help en route, okay?
caller: thank you so much.
operator: have a safe day. bye.
caller: the car is on fire on the westbound, west of the high-rise.
operator: let me check. a limo blocking the three, but nobody said it's on fire. did you see flames or smoke?
caller: yeah, i saw flames and people standing out of the car.
operator: okay, thank you so much for calling. have a good night.
caller: you too.
operator: so it's a limo on fire?
caller: yes.
operator: is it westbound, where on the bridge?
caller: near the peak of the high-rise.
operator: and is it on the right-hand shoulder?
caller: yes.
operator: where are the flames coming from?
caller: from the back.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: i'm sorry?
operator: we will get help started. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: go ahead, there's a report of a car fire.
caller: calm down, calm down. yes, there's a car fire, westbound 92, right on the decline.
operator: i'm calling the fire department now.
caller: this is 143. there's a car fire, westbound 92, right on the decline. it's a limo that's fully engulfed.
operator: i am transferring you to the fire department now, hold on.
caller: emergency dispatcher, do you have the location of your emergency?
operator: hi, chp transfer with a caller for a car fire, westbound 92 at the high rise.
caller: do you have a log on this?
operator: yes, the log number is 3376.
caller: do we know if it's east or west of the high rise?
operator: it's westbound 92, just west of the high rise. it's a limo blocking on fire.
caller: very good. thank you.
operator: thank you.
caller: 999 emergency, what are you reporting?
operator: there's a car fire and a limousine on the san mateo bridge. are you traveling westbound or eastbound?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: i'm going towards hayward, but the limo is on the other side.
operator: is it right when you start coming down off the high rise?
caller: yes.
operator: and is it stopped in the number one lane?
caller: yes.
operator: we're dispatching highway patrol. thank you. have a safe night.
caller: it's a limousine?
operator: and it's on the right-hand shoulder?
caller: yes, westbound on the high rise.
operator: what color is the limo?
caller: white with a black top.
operator: is anyone in the vehicle?
caller: i saw two people running around.
operator: we have help on the way.
caller: thank you so much.
operator: have a safe day. goodbye.
caller: there are five more people trapped inside.
operator: courtney, can you update fire? just stand over here, we're coming right now.
caller: okay, okay.
operator: we've got help on the way. stay back and stay safe.
caller: is there anything else i need to do?
operator: just stay back and keep others out of the lanes. help is on the way.
caller: okay, i see the fire department arriving.
operator: alright, we've updated them as much as possible. thank you for your help.
caller: hi, there's a limousine on fire on the eastbound san mateo bridge.
operator: we have it at the westbound location. thank you.
caller: san mateo bridge, heading towards foster city.
operator: are you in the vehicle?
caller: no, we're outside.
operator: can they get out?
caller: hello?
operator: which direction are you going on the bridge, east or west?
caller: towards foster city.
operator: so are you on the west side?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, hold on. what is your name?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: i'm transferring you to the fire department.
caller: hey, chp, west on 92 east of foster city, there's a limo burning up with people inside.
operator: sir, can you tell me how many people are in the vehicle?
caller: i don't know.
operator: that’s okay, we have people on the way. just keep your distance and stay safe.
caller: there's a vehicle on fire on the san mateo bridge.
operator: just confirming, is it on the eastbound or the westbound side of 92?
caller: westbound, right before you reach the peak of it.
operator: is it in the far slow lane or right-hand shoulder?
caller: far slow lane.
operator: okay, we are sending fire and highway patrol. what's your name?
caller: thank you. you too.
operator: have a safe drive.
caller: hi, i just passed by a white limo that's on fire on the san mateo bridge.
operator: we have it, thank you for calling.
caller: are you notified about people possibly trapped inside?
operator: yes, we are aware and help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm sorry, what? in palm desert?
operator: ma'am?
operator: ma'am, i need to get an address.
operator: ma'am, i need to get an address.
caller: okay, okay, i'm sorry, i'm sorry.
operator: can you go somewhere where i can hear you?
caller: yes, yes, yes, yes.
caller: yes. our address is 72341 highway 111.
operator: 72341?
caller: no, 74321 highway 111.
operator: 74321?
caller: i think this guy's dying.
operator: what's the cross street?
caller: we're off of 111 and sunset, right.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: i don't know. they just started fighting, and all i heard was gunshots. these two guys are on the floor, and both of them are shot.
operator: both of them are shot?
caller: yeah.
operator: who has a gun?
caller: um, i don't know. one of them in a black shirt had a gun.
operator: where's the person with the gun?
caller: he's passed out near the register.
operator: he's passed out near the register? is he shot also?
caller: yes, they're both down.
caller: it's chaos here. there are kids in this place.
operator: is this a business?
caller: yes, toys r us.
operator: okay, i have the police on the way. stay on the line with me, okay?
operator: give me a description of the two people who are down.
caller: one has a black sweatshirt and black jeans on. the other one has a brown sweatshirt with levi's and white tennis shoes.
operator: the second person that's down, what is he wearing?
caller: they're both down. they're both down.
operator: okay, the first person is wearing a black sweatshirt. what is the second person wearing?
caller: black sweatshirt and black t-shirt. the second person has on a pair of blue jeans with a brown hoodie, and he's on the floor.
caller: the cops are coming now.
caller: oh, my god. are they here? are the deputies here?
caller: yeah, they're here, they're coming, they're coming.
caller: please, i have two people down on the floor. please, please, please.
operator: okay, the police are there now. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: i'm here.
operator: 9-9-9, you need police, fire, or medical?
caller: i mean, you know what happened?
operator: hello?
caller: i'm sorry. i'm sorry. there's a situation here. we have residents that, i think, they stole a car, and there's a man in the bathroom right now.
operator: okay, what's the address?
caller: they told us what happened, and as soon as they left, we came over here, but they had them tied up with duct tape.
operator: how long ago did this occur?
caller: the call was like five minutes ago, but we had to make sure they were gone so we could get this guy out of the bathroom.
operator: what kind of vehicle was it?
caller: it's a mercedes. can you please come here?
operator: there's already deputies on the way, okay? i need you to calm down and take a deep breath. my asking you questions is not slowing them down. they're already on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: calm down, okay. who were these people and how many?
caller: they live here in the residence.
operator: okay, i understand. how many subjects were there?
caller: there are two.
operator: two. okay, were they males, females?
caller: yes, they're two males.
operator: okay, were they white, black, hispanic?
operator: hello?
caller: hello?
operator: can you give me some information?
caller: if the cops are on the way, that's all i need.
operator: i've already told you they're on the way. my asking you these questions is not delaying them.
caller: hello? listen, can you ask questions? they're already on the way.
operator: yes, i've dispatched them.
caller: i'm not worried about that. i need police to report a kidnapper. they kidnapped me.
operator: like i talked to the person who was already on the phone, i've already told them there's three deputies that are on the way.
caller: okay. i'll give you all the car information when they get here. i've been kidnapped. i've been gone for hours at gunpoint. i've been in the back seat of a car.
caller: it sounds crazy, but this is real.
operator: okay. what is your name, please?
caller: my name is...
caller: how long before they come back? that's what we're worried about.
operator: okay, sir, calm down. i've already told you there's three deputies that have been on the way since you guys first called. do you know who the people were that kidnapped you?
caller: no, i have no idea. the gentleman here does. the most important thing is to have units here now.
operator: okay, sir. i've already told you there's three deputies that are responding. do you know where they may have been headed?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: okay. and how long ago? i've been in a closet, locked up. just stay on the phone with me in case they come back, okay, so that we know.
caller: well, they're going to come back. we're not worried about that. the question is whether they come back before the cops get here and people get shot or...
operator: okay, there's a deputy pulling up now, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we just witnessed a shooting on 3rd avenue and nickerson.
operator: third and nickerson?
caller: yes.
operator: how many minutes ago was it?
caller: 30 seconds ago.
operator: was this 3rd avenue north or 3rd avenue west?
caller: 3rd avenue west.
operator: 3rd avenue west, 30 seconds ago.
operator: who had a gun? was it a male or female?
caller: a male in a cap of some sort.
operator: radio, report a shooting that just occurred at 3rd avenue west and west nickerson street. caller says 30 seconds ago.
operator: what did you see the guy do with the gun? was somebody shot?
caller: he just walked up behind this guy.
operator: was somebody shot?
caller: yes.
operator: get fire on the line. stay on the line, ma'am.
operator: fire and medic one, what's the address?
operator: this is radio. we have a shooting at 3rd avenue west and west nickerson street. caller says they saw a male shoot another person.
caller: ma'am, they are lying on the ground.
caller: it looks like he's still on the ground, but i can't tell.
operator: does anybody have a description? we need to know who we're looking for and we've got lots of help on the way.
caller: he was about five foot nine, maybe 140 pounds. he had a plaid shirt on over a white t-shirt and was wearing jeans. he had pretty dark hair and was wearing glasses.
operator: is he a white male, black male?
caller: he's a white male.
operator: how old?
caller: probably between 25 and 30.
operator: what direction did he go?
caller: i didn't see that. we were going in the opposite direction when he shot the person.
operator: was he on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: i thought he got out of a vehicle, but he just came across the street on foot.
operator: did you see a vehicle, sir?
caller: i didn't see that he got out of a vehicle. all i saw was he crossed the street.
operator: and you didn't see which way he actually went, correct?
caller: after he shot, he reloaded and just went away. i couldn't see where he went.
operator: okay, and the victim that's down on the ground, this is a male?
caller: i can't see. the campus security officers are dealing with it right now.
operator: right, i'm just trying to get as much information as i can about what you saw.
caller: there were two people standing there and this guy walked up behind one of them, lifted his gun, and shot directly into the back of the person's head.
operator: okay, so you said it was a rifle like a long gun, not a handgun?
caller: it was a shotgun.
operator: sir, did you say it was a shotgun?
caller: i believe it was a shotgun with a ribbed upper section.
operator: are you still there?
caller: yes, we're still here.
operator: no, i mean are you still at the scene or did you leave?
caller: yes, we're still at the scene.
operator: and you have no idea where the suspect went, nobody saw which way he went?
caller: i did not. we passed it and then turned around and came back.
operator: okay, we're on scene and staged.
operator: everyone's there, sir. thank you so much. we appreciate this.
operator: you can go ahead and just stay there; they're going to come talk to you if they need to. just keep your phone open and available if they need to contact you.
caller: okay.
operator: thank you so much. i'm glad you're safe.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm at 6969 east main. my son just shot his wife, two houses to the south of me.
operator: he shot his wife?
caller: that's what i'm telling you.
operator: okay, and two houses to the south, how do you know this?
caller: my sons were just here. what's the matter, son?
operator: what is your name, sir?
caller: you've got to get here. my son just shot his wife.
operator: okay, okay. is she dead?
caller: i'm at 6969 east main. my son's here right now.
operator: okay, what house is his wife at?
caller: two houses south.
operator: do you know the address?
caller: no, i do not.
operator: all right. is your name sherman?
caller: yes.
operator: sherman kovac?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. are you calling from 6969 east main?
caller: yes, that's correct.
operator: sir, i have people en route, okay? i've got help on the way. now, i need to get some information from you, sir.
caller: okay.
operator: what is your son's name?
caller: john kovac.
operator: what is his first name?
caller: john, j-o-h-n.
operator: and how old is he?
caller: 40.
operator: does he still have the weapon with him?
caller: i do not know that. he doesn't have it on him. i can see him.
operator: okay. are you in contact with him?
caller: sir, just stay on the line with me.
operator: sir, i need you to stay on the line. don't hang up.
caller: get over here.
operator: okay, okay. all right, i'm still with you. what is he wearing?
caller: he's wearing a black t-shirt with camo shorts.
operator: white male or black male?
caller: white male.
operator: black t-shirt, camo shorts. where is the victim?
caller: they hated her. can you get here?
operator: sir, i have several units en route, okay? you have to bear with me. i just need to get some information from you. where's john?
caller: he's inside. he does not have a gun.
operator: is he being violent towards you?
caller: no.
operator: do you think this was accidental?
caller: i don't know if it was accidental.
operator: is that him in the background?
caller: yes.
operator: is he crying in the background?
caller: yes.
caller: i wish he had come to me.
operator: can you ask her if she's dead?
caller: you have to figure that out. you can't ask him that. too much trauma.
operator: okay, i understand. where is he now?
caller: i have him in my arms.
caller: hello?
caller: john, is this john?
caller: yes, i just shot my wife.
operator: was this deliberate, john, or did you accidentally shoot her?
caller: i don't know. she was screaming at me.
operator: okay.
caller: she screamed at my kids over a boiled pot.
operator: i'm on the phone with him right now.
caller: john, i need you to stay calm. is anyone else hurt?
caller: my kids are present. i will come out. i'm unarmed.
scenario:active_shooter
operator: okay. john, i need you to walk outside with your hands in the air.
caller: okay, not a problem. dad, take the phone. they need you outside.
operator: is he heading outside now, sir?
caller: the cops are here.
operator: okay, sir. all right.
caller: i can't hear you.
operator: i know, sir. hang on one second.
operator: mr. kovac, i'm going to hang up now. stay in the house. officers will talk to you shortly.
caller: thank you.
operator: good luck. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: police, please.
operator: where do you need them?
caller: 51 redwood drive in north york.
operator: is that a house or an apartment?
caller: a house.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: i'm about to kill people.
operator: you're about to kill people?
caller: yes. i have a deadly weapon and i intend to use it.
operator: what kind of weapon?
caller: it's a knife.
operator: is there anybody else in the house with you?
caller: my mother.
operator: and you want to kill your mother?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, why do you want to kill your mother?
caller: i'm very evil.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: sylvia clibbingaitis.
operator: sylvia, can you spell your last name for me?
caller: g-l-i-b-i-n-g-a-i-t-i-s.
operator: okay, and what's your date of birth?
caller: august 11, 1959.
operator: okay, what kind of knife do you have?
caller: about a foot long.
operator: a foot long? is it like a machete or just a big long blade?
caller: just a big long blade.
operator: what room is your mother in?
caller: her bedroom.
operator: what room are you in?
caller: her bedroom where the phone is.
operator: so you're in your mother's bedroom?
caller: yes.
operator: is she in the bedroom with you now?
caller: no, she's in the bathroom.
operator: okay. why don't you get out of your mother's room and walk to the front door?
caller: okay.
operator: can you put down the knife, please?
caller: i'm holding it.
operator: can you please put it down?
caller: no.
operator: does your mother know that you want to kill her?
caller: no.
operator: are you leaving your mother's bedroom?
caller: no.
operator: have you been diagnosed with any psychiatric problems?
caller: yes, bipolar.
operator: did something happen that made you want to kill her?
caller: no.
operator: so what made you pick up the knife today? sylvia, what made you pick up the knife?
caller: something must have made me decide to do that.
operator: where did you get the knife from?
caller: (no response)
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: this is 999. do you have an emergency?
caller: hello?
operator: ma'am? hello?
caller: hello?
operator: are you okay? what happened to you?
caller: get off me! no! no!
caller: hello! hello?
operator: hello? what is going on?
caller: i'm scared. i'm scared.
operator: what is happening? can you tell me where you are?
caller: oh, i'm scared. i'm gone.
operator: stay on the line, i'm sending help.
operator: are we getting another bid on her, 1020?
caller: oh no, let me see, hold on.
caller: same thing. somebody must go by.
operator: do you hear that? hello?
caller: i'm on the street right now.
operator: the line is still open, but i don't hear anything.
operator: just stay on the phone for just a second, okay?
operator: has it rebid yet for address?
caller: no, it was the same.
operator: all right, hold on just a second.
caller: get out of here! the dog's barking.
caller: jeff, are you still there?
operator: yes, i'm still here. the phone is still open.
caller: okay, we found them. i'm sorry, we've just been busy up here, but we can go ahead and hang up, okay?
operator: okay, no problem.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's an emergency at fairway off of beechville, 30188.
operator: okay, is that the address where the lake is?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: can you give me the address again?
caller: the fairway.
operator: fairway, and then a golf course?
caller: fairway.
operator: fairway and where?
caller: the fairway and batesville.
operator: batesville and what?
caller: fairway is the street, ma'am.
operator: fairway, i don't have that. is that in milton? what city is that in?
caller: 30188.
operator: okay, can you give me the address again?
caller: the fairway, 30188.
operator: okay, please stay on the line.
caller: ma'am, i lost her. she's in a lake.
operator: she's in a lake?
caller: yes, she says she's in a lake.
operator: which lake did she mention?
caller: the fairway at batesville.
operator: okay, i'll transfer you to county public safety.
operator: hey, it's alpharetta. we have a female possible drowning. she's in a lake, giving 30188 batesville at the fairway.
operator: 3.0188, is that a zip code?
caller: i'm not sure. she was in distress.
operator: she said the fairway. we need to find the exact location.
caller: fairway at batesville?
operator: yes, that's what she mentioned.
caller: is there a lake there?
operator: she said she's in a lake. checking local lakes now.
caller: do you know the exact location?
operator: the fairway is a street off batesville. we are sending units to check.
caller: do you know if there’s a lake there?
operator: checking with local units. they mentioned a pond by the greenway.
caller: okay, let me know after you check.
operator: we have a unit on the way. i’ll call you back.
caller: thank you.
operator: you’re welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, sir, i need a police car right now at night.
operator: what's your location?
caller: 504 gay street.
operator: 504 what?
caller: in my house, he's wrecking my car.
operator: what's your address, sir?
caller: my name is horace.
operator: your address?
caller: 504 gay street.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: my phone number is 706-317-7553.
operator: can i have your name?
caller: horace morgan.
operator: so what's going on?
caller: this guy's coming here, raising hell and breaking everything. he smoked into my house and started knocking the hell out of me.
operator: do you know who this is?
caller: yes, frank williams.
operator: are you at gay street, g-a-y or g-e-y?
caller: g-a-y, officer.
operator: okay. are you safe right now?
caller: no, he's coming back. he's got a ball bat.
operator: do you still have your ball bat?
caller: no, i don't have anything.
operator: sir, i just heard you say you were going to get a ball bat.
caller: he's going to get it. i told him i'm calling the police.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me.
caller: here he is, officer.
operator: sir, stay on the line. help is on the way.
caller: oh, god damn you.
operator: sir?
caller: hello, god damn you.
operator: sir, are you there?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i'm at a school on 2nd avenue, and there’s a gentleman here saying the police are coming and he's going to start shooting.
operator: okay, do not let anyone into the building, including the police. stay on the line with me. where are you in the building?
caller: i'm in the front office.
caller: he just went outside and started shooting.
operator: can you get somewhere safe?
caller: i'll try, but he might see me. i have to call you back.
caller: hold on. put the phone down.
caller: she said she's getting the police now to tell them to back off, okay?
caller: okay. stop all movement on the ground.
caller: if it's not an emergency, please do not use the radio.
operator: are you talking to the shooter?
caller: that's what he's telling me to say on the radio.
operator: okay, and what did you want me to tell the police, sir?
caller: he told me to call the news. he's not mentally stable.
operator: alright, stay on the line with me.
caller: he said he's on probation, and if he gives his name, he's going away for a long time.
operator: can you ask if he's willing to give his name?
caller: he said no.
operator: okay, can you stay on the line and talk to him?
caller: he said he's not mentally stable and regrets not going to the hospital.
operator: i can let them know that you have not tried to harm anyone if that helps.
caller: he wants to know if he walks out with me, will they shoot him?
operator: tell him to stay put and i will get an okay from them.
caller: he said to evacuate the nearby homes.
operator: okay. ask him if he's willing to give up his weapon.
caller: he said if they come armed, he's going to start shooting again.
operator: okay. he said he wants to go to the hospital.
operator: he put his weapon down. is it safe for the officers to come in?
caller: yes, he's lying on the ground with his hands behind his back.
operator: tell him to stay calm. the officers are coming in.
caller: i love you, and i’m proud of you for giving up.
operator: you're doing great. tell him the officers are coming in now.
caller: he wants to know if he can drink his water.
operator: yes, that's fine. just keep him calm.
caller: he said he was with the inner harbor kids playing drums for red women week.
operator: alright, the officers are on their way in now.
caller: he said the gun may come back as stolen, but it's not.
operator: that's okay. just keep everything calm. the officers will sort it out.
caller: he said he has no more weapons on him.
operator: good, tell him to stay where he is until the officers get there.
caller: he’s laying on the ground with his hands behind his back.
operator: you're doing great. stay calm and wait for the officers.
caller: okay. they’re here. thank you, ma'am.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey amelia, this is todd. how you doing?
operator: hey, todd, what's up?
caller: hey, can you send someone by hawkins that runs between lynn and post, over in zone 2?
operator: what's up?
caller: it's going to reference possible shots fired and some type of disturbance.
operator: how many shots?
caller: like three or four.
operator: alright, and you know, since it's thanksgiving, i'll even let you be anonymous.
caller: alright, there you go. it's over by my folks' house, so don't make contact because there's some more than questionable people living behind them now. so if you can just leave it anonymous, that's fine.
operator: no problem.
caller: thank you. have a happy thanksgiving.
operator: you too. talk to you later.
caller: alright, bye. it's on lynn and second or maybe post and second. there have been four gunshots.
operator: post and second?
caller: yes, and this is in fayville?
operator: alright. how many did you hear?
caller: okay, all total there's been four. there was one about 15 minutes ago. and about three or four minutes ago, there was one on the side street, which is second avenue. and just now there were two more and it sounded like it was over on closton post avenue.
operator: alright, and it's on post and lynn?
caller: yeah.
operator: alright, we're going to send officers in there to check it out as soon as possible, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, where's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i just heard some gunshots in my neighborhood.
operator: where are you, sir?
caller: on post avenue.
operator: post avenue?
caller: yeah, it's not necessarily for me. i just heard some gunshots in the neighborhood.
operator: okay. how many did you hear?
caller: i heard about four.
operator: okay, sir, we'll get somebody out there.
caller: okay, appreciate it.
operator: thank you. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i live on post avenue. a cop just came down. shots fired. shot fired.
operator: yes, ma'am. we're aware.
caller: hurry, because they're fighting or something out there.
operator: yes, ma'am. we're aware. thank you.
caller: okay. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i live at 115 post avenue. there's just been gunshots right next door to me.
operator: yes, ma'am. we have the call, and we have officers on the way out there, okay?
caller: thank you.
caller: 712, you have another call.
operator: 10-4, shots fired, anonymous caller, area hawkins road and lynn avenue.
scenario:robbery
operator: hawkins road and lynn avenue, zone 2. heard three shots in the area.
caller: 10-4, anonymous complaint.
operator: 10-4.
caller: 711.
operator: 711, go ahead.
caller: city 712, send me out with a subject at post and hawkins.
operator: 10-4.
caller: city 705, show me out at the vehicle.
operator: 10-4.
caller: florida registration, p05 john henry boy.
operator: city, can you tell by the unit?
caller: 712 is at post and hawkins, zone 2. he was out with a subject.
operator: units, just go ahead.
caller: go ahead.
operator: 712, 267, can you advise on your status?
caller: city, i believe i'm 10-4, just had fire medics step up, subject's down.
operator: 10-4.
caller: fire medics are en route. eoc, please direct units responding to your location.
operator: all units en route, advise city.
caller: i'm en route.
operator: 4 is en route.
caller: several levels en route.
operator: unit on scene, advise your numbers.
caller: 702.
caller: or 792.
operator: 708, 702, check-on.
caller: 10-4. all units can downgrade your traffic.
operator: we'll be on post avenue.
caller: 708, is the scene secure for fire medics?
operator: 10-4. get somebody over on lynn and hawkins to standby, making sure cars don't come through.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: the baby's not breathing.
operator: what's the location?
caller: 1280 highland avenue.
operator: 1280 highland? is this a house or an apartment?
caller: it's a house.
operator: okay, what's the phone number that you're calling from?
caller: it's [phone number].
operator: now, ma'am, stay on the line with me. i'm going to connect you over to fire rescue, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: this is c-17 connecting 1280 highland avenue. information verified.
operator: what is the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: hello? can you talk to me?
operator: okay. calm down so we can help the baby, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i need to ask you some questions. is the baby male or female?
caller: male.
operator: is the baby conscious?
caller: no.
operator: is the baby breathing?
caller: no, he's not breathing. please help.
operator: okay. i've got help on the way. we're going to help the baby, okay? did you see what happened?
caller: i was sleeping. i went to check, and he was not breathing.
operator: are you with the baby right now?
caller: i'm outside.
operator: i need you to be by the baby. can you get to the baby?
caller: she's got him in her arms.
operator: i need the baby to be laying flat on his back on the ground. remove any pillows. is there anything in the baby's mouth?
caller: no.
operator: okay. place your hand on the baby's forehead, the other hand under the baby's neck and shoulders. then slightly tilt the head back. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: no.
operator: alright, listen to me. do not stop what we are doing. can you feel any breathing?
caller: no, we can't.
operator: okay, i'm going to tell you how to give mouth-to-mouth. when the baby's head is slightly tilted back, completely cover the baby's mouth and nose with yours and blow two puffs of air into the lungs.
caller: okay, i'll do it.
operator: just enough to make the chest rise with each breath. did you feel the air going in and out?
caller: i'm not sure. he's got fluid in his lungs.
operator: you still need to blow air into the lungs. what is your name?
caller: my name is nelson. my son's turning white.
operator: is someone doing chest compressions?
caller: yes, she's doing them.
operator: make sure to use two fingers on the breastbone in the center of his chest, right between the nipples. push down hard and fast.
caller: there's a fire station right down the street. what is going on?
operator: they're on their way, sir. we need to keep working on the baby. is she continuing cpr?
caller: yes, but he's turning purple.
operator: okay, keep going. they're almost there. i see the lights.
caller: i see the lights. please hurry up!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello. we're at the nelson building and there's a man here with a gun who came into the board meeting.
operator: okay, you're at the nelson building?
caller: yes, on balboa, 1311 balboa.
operator: okay, where is he at right now?
caller: he's in the boardroom.
operator: can you give me a description? what does he look like?
caller: he's white, tall, kind of heavyset. he's wearing a blue shirt, i think.
operator: has he fired the weapon?
caller: no, he hasn't fired it, but he pulled it out and said, 'you fired my wife!'
operator: okay, hold on. so, he's in the boardroom at the nelson building?
caller: yes, some of the board members are out of the room, but there are still others inside.
operator: can you find out how many people are still in the boardroom?
caller: several of the board members and the superintendent, probably about four or five people.
operator: okay, so he's got about five people hostage in the boardroom?
caller: yes, he's holding them hostage. the rest of us ran out quickly.
operator: okay, i'm just updating my officers. what did he say about his wife again?
caller: he said, 'you fired my wife,' then took out a gun and some spray paint and painted the wall. most of us ran out after that.
operator: all right. do you have a policy in place for situations like this? should people evacuate the building?
caller: we're behind secure doors, but those doors aren't bulletproof.
operator: if you can safely evacuate, do it. if it's safe to stay put, then do that. is there a video feed of the boardroom?
caller: yes, we have a video of the boardroom. he doesn't know we're live, but we can see him. the superintendent and three board members are visible.
operator: are you watching him live on the video now?
caller: yes, we are near the video feed right now.
operator: okay, if you can safely evacuate, do so. otherwise, stay put. is the video room secured?
caller: no, it's not a secure room, but everyone else is behind a secure area.
operator: okay, can you give me more details about the gunman from the video feed?
caller: he's wearing blue jeans and a gray hoodie. he's holding the gun in his hand.
operator: i want you to stay on the line with me, okay? has he fired any shots?
caller: not yet. oh my gosh, he's firing!
operator: stay calm. do you know if anyone has been hit?
caller: one of the board members is down. the gunman has also been shot.
operator: are the police there? can you see them arriving on the video?
caller: yes, the police just came in. they are entering the boardroom now.
operator: you're doing fine. just stay with me, okay?
caller: i'm okay. the police are here. they're securing the area.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi there. um, i'd like to report something.
operator: okay, what's wrong?
caller: um, i took some pills and the pills made me go mad and i murdered my roommate.
operator: you murdered your roommate?
caller: yes.
operator: where are you at? what's your address?
caller: 52 o-9 roots drive, hickory, north carolina.
operator: okay, what do you mean you murdered your roommate?
caller: i shot him three times, then i used an axe and mutilated his body.
operator: okay, where is your roommate now? are you still in the house with him?
caller: yes, i'm right here beside him.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: michael anderson.
operator: okay, michael, what did you take that made you do this?
caller: i took, um, i od'd on mucinex dm. the dextromethorphan makes me feel weird, and i took too many.
operator: okay, what is your roommate's name?
caller: steven starr.
operator: okay. and you said you shot him?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, where is the gun at now?
caller: in my hand.
operator: in your hand?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i need you to put the gun somewhere safe, okay?
caller: i don't know what to do now.
operator: listen, i'm going to stay on the phone with you, okay?
caller: oh my god, i don't know what to do now.
operator: listen to me, i'm going to stay on the phone with you. what part of the house are you in?
caller: i'm in the master bedroom.
operator: okay. where is your roommate at?
caller: he's in his bed.
operator: okay. can you take the gun and put it down on the floor and go to where the front door is?
caller: no.
operator: okay, where's your front door at? what part of the house?
caller: you walk out the master bedroom, you turn right, it's in the front of the house right there.
operator: okay. can you lay the gun down on the floor? i don't want you to have a gun in your hand, okay? can you lay it down on the floor?
caller: i don't know what to do now.
operator: okay. well, i'm going to help you, but what i need you to do is put that gun down, okay?
caller: i don't know why i did it.
operator: okay. well, we're going to get you some help, okay?
caller: i stopped taking my meds for adhd when i was like 17, but i didn't think it mattered.
operator: okay, that's okay. i'm going to help you, okay?
caller: i started getting real bad on drugs and stuff, and then there's a, i killed my roommate. i can't believe i just killed my roommate. my life is ruined.
operator: okay, listen, i need you to put that gun down, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: and i need you, can you put it on the floor?
caller: all right.
operator: okay. are you on a cordless phone or a cell phone that you can walk around the house?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. i want you to go to the room that is where the front door is, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: okay. what room is that? is that a kitchen? what is it?
caller: it's kind of like a living room and a den.
operator: okay. is there a place for you to sit down there?
caller: there's a chair right at the front door.
operator: okay. i want you to sit down on that chair. i want you to tell me and promise me you do not have a gun or anything in your hand, no weapons.
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay, all right. i want you to sit down on that chair, okay?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: i'm going to get some help out there for you, all right?
caller: all right. oh, and ma'am?
operator: uh-huh?
caller: there's some things to his body that you don't want them to see.
operator: okay, well, i've got you some help on the way out there, okay?
caller: you're not going to know who it is.
operator: okay. i want you to stay on the phone with me until they get there, okay?
caller: all right? am i going to a mental hospital?
operator: we're going to get you some help, all right? we're going to get you some help, i promise.
caller: okay.
operator: just try to calm down. i think i'm having a panic attack.
operator: okay. what you need to do is take a deep breath. take a deep breath and calm down. did you and your roommate get in an argument or did this just happen?
caller: um, we met at a, um, i went to, um, i was straight and i wanted to go, um, bisexual just to experiment, and i went to a gay club, and i met him, went to his house, and he took me in. i turned straight again, and he wanted to, um, touch me and stuff, and i wouldn't let him. he kept trying, and i waited until he went to sleep, and then i shot him three times, and i mutilated him very badly. i'm sorry.
operator: okay, all right. we're going to get you some help, okay?
caller: oh, god. please help me.
operator: do you have anybody else in the house with you?
caller: no, just us.
operator: okay. stay on the phone with me.
caller: yes, ma'am.
caller: it's 5209 roots drive.
operator: 5209 roots drive?
caller: yes, 5209.
operator: okay, is this a house or a mobile home or?
caller: it's a double wide.
operator: it's a double wide. do you have any cars out in front?
caller: you'll turn out of a church on a dirt road, you'll go down the dirt road until you turn in a dirt driveway where there'll be a green truck.
operator: a green truck?
caller: yes, an older green truck. and if you look in the window, it'll be manual.
operator: okay.
caller: and then there'll be a yellow truck and there'll be wood out there that i was chopping.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm sorry, ma'am, but the axe is inside his stomach.
operator: okay. i want you to stay on the phone with me, but you say you do not have any weapons with you, correct?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay. i just don't want you to have any weapons in your hands, okay?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: all right.
caller: i'm sorry to ruin your night, ma'am.
operator: do what?
caller: i'm sorry to ruin your night.
operator: you're fine. we're going to get you some help, okay?
caller: i've got blood all over my hands.
operator: okay. i want you to stay where you are, okay? just stay sitting in the chair. take some deep breaths. we've got you some help on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: okay. listen to me. listen to me. tell me again you do not have a gun or anything in your hand.
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay. all right. i want you to stay on the phone till i tell you what to do, okay?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: do not go outside till i tell you to.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a black male yelling at me to turn off an alarm.
operator: can you give me your location?
caller: i'm on harrison and albemarle.
operator: do you advise that the male is outside of the house now in the front yard?
caller: yes, he's outside.
operator: can you give me an eta of any officers arriving?
caller: i'm not sure, but i'm at harrisburg road.
operator: has the suspect tried to enter the house?
caller: yes, he kicked through the door. there's also a child in the house.
operator: does she know the subject?
caller: no, she doesn't know him. she said he was wearing a green shirt and khakis or jeans.
operator: did he leave the yard?
caller: she thinks he might have because the motion light went off.
operator: shots fired. all units hold your traffic.
operator: is anybody hit?
caller: we need a medic.
operator: is it going to be the suspect that was hit?
caller: yes, suspect was hit. suspect is down at this time.
operator: was the officer hit?
caller: yes, officer was hit by the suspect.
operator: was the officer shot or physically hit?
caller: physically hit, not shot.
operator: do we have a suspect that's been shot or an officer that's been hit or both?
caller: both.
operator: is anyone out with the victim?
caller: i'm across the street. i'll go check on them.
operator: thank you. please ensure you get a detailed statement from her.
caller: victim is 10-4. she's shaken up but okay.
operator: alright, make sure to get a detailed statement.
operator: do we need any crime scene units out there?
caller: yes, please send them out.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
scenario:fire
caller: i'm out here right now, and i locked my keys in my car.
caller: is there any way that someone can come out here and unlock my car?
operator: commercial services are available in town to do that. police and fire cannot assist with that.
caller: what do you mean by commercial services?
operator: i mean you'll have to pay to have it done.
caller: okay, what's the closest service?
operator: the closest is massings. their number is 987.
caller: alright, thank you.
operator: good day.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's not an emergency. the only way i know how to get in touch with this woman is through officer bourbon county.
operator: okay, i need you to call back on a non-emergency line.
caller: how do i do that? what's the number?
operator: 859-987-2100.
caller: thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: there's some raccoons in my attic, and it sounds like they've made their way into the attic somehow from outside.
caller: it sounds like they're trying to scratch their way into the house.
operator: you dialed 999 for raccoons in your attic?
caller: yeah, because animal control came out one other time and said they could go up there and get the raccoons.
caller: the animal control people came out last year when a snake got in the house.
caller: i haven't called my landlord yet. should i call her first?
operator: what's your name and phone number?
caller: teresa. my number is 749.
operator: you definitely need to call your landlord. next time, call on the administrative line. this is taking up an emergency line.
caller: i'm sorry, what's the administrative line?
operator: it's 987-2100.
caller: 2100? okay, i'll call that line. thank you.
operator: we'll get a hold of animal control. uh-huh. all right, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency? i hear you breathing.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm sorry, but the fireworks are still going on.
operator: i'm sorry, you cannot call 999 for that.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody broke into our house. um, last night, and i don't know who it was, but they killed everybody here except for my sister, my brother, and me.
operator: what's your name?
caller: matthew peek.
operator: where are you at?
caller: um, 397 waterfall loop, ronnieville, kentucky, 4162.
operator: okay, and what happened now?
caller: um, there was a guy with a pistol, or some kind of gun, and he came in and shot my mother and my grandma. those were the only ones here.
operator: are you there now?
caller: and they also killed one of my grandma's dogs, so we still have three dogs left.
operator: did you just now come home?
caller: no.
operator: were you there last night?
caller: yes, i was just afraid to call.
operator: stay on the line, okay? i'm going to connect you to the police department.
caller: okay.
operator: kentucky state police 999. how can i help you?
caller: there was a break-in last night. i was afraid to call and they shot the only two people here, which was my grandma and my mom.
operator: where are you at, honey?
caller: um, 397 waterfall loop, ronnieville, kentucky. the zip code is 4162.
operator: in what county?
caller: in ronnieville, kentucky.
operator: what's going on right now?
caller: nothing. i was afraid to call last night.
operator: okay. and did the police come out last night?
caller: no.
operator: they didn't?
caller: no.
operator: and who was shot last night?
caller: my mom and my grandma.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, where is your emergency?
caller: 4,900 down the street.
operator: where exactly?
caller: 4,900 comfrey.
operator: is there an apartment number?
caller: no, it's at the house.
operator: what's your name?
operator: are you inside the house?
caller: yes.
operator: are you alone inside the house?
caller: yes.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i love him.
operator: what room are you in?
caller: in my bedroom.
operator: is the person inside the house?
caller: yes.
operator: what does he look like?
caller: i don't know.
operator: you don't know if he's a white male or a black male?
operator: okay, and you don't know what he looks like.
operator: how do you know he's inside the house?
caller: i hear him.
operator: you hear him. where are your parents?
caller: in the gas station.
operator: okay.
caller: i just heard somebody.
operator: what's all that noise in the background?
caller: i'm trying to hide.
operator: so were you moving furniture?
caller: yeah.
operator: what are you doing?
caller: hiding.
operator: okay, you're still in your bedroom?
caller: mm-hmm.
operator: hold on a second.
operator: did you hear the person talking or anything?
caller: yes.
operator: what was the person saying?
caller: i don't know. he's in my parents' room.
operator: do you know how he got into the house?
caller: he broke the glass.
operator: from which window?
caller: in the kitchen.
operator: can you go into your closet and hide in your closet?
caller: it's two people.
operator: it's two people?
caller: yeah.
operator: what kind of voices do you hear? do you hear two men, a man and a woman?
caller: two men.
operator: can you tell me what they're saying?
caller: i don't know. they're very...
caller: i can't hear any more.
operator: do you know what side of the house they're on?
caller: no.
operator: the north, the south, the east, or the west or anything like that?
caller: north.
operator: if you're looking at the house, are they on the right or the left?
caller: on your left side.
operator: left side.
caller: a yellow house.
operator: okay. he said if you're looking at the house, it's the left side.
operator: is your bedroom on the right or the left?
caller: no.
operator: what did they yell?
caller: i don't know. i'm in my room. i'm under my bed.
operator: are they here yet?
operator: be quiet, okay? talk very softly.
caller: okay.
caller: hello? he's under the bed. if i'm looking at your house, what side is the bedroom? in the back?
caller: on the left? in the front?
caller: in the front.
operator: in front of the house?
caller: they're outside.
operator: i want you to stay on the phone, okay?
caller: you're going to go through the window?
caller: hello? the father said it's on the east side.
caller: yeah, i hear them knocking.
operator: you hear the officers knocking on your window?
operator: go to the window.
caller: he's going to the window.
operator: you see them?
operator: you see the officers?
caller: can i come out now?
operator: yes, come out from underneath your bed and go to the officers at your bedroom window.
operator: can you see them?
caller: i'm coming out.
operator: okay, you see the officers?
caller: come to the next window.
caller: he said tell them to go to the next window.
operator: do you see them now?
caller: not yet.
operator: what did you say?
caller: i'm going to go. he's in my sister's room.
operator: who's in your sister's room? the guy in the house?
caller: no, the officer.
caller: yeah, he's at the back window.
operator: next window.
caller: the officer is in his sister's room.
caller: they have to come over more.
operator: alright, go to the officer at the window.
caller: okay.
operator: are you with the officer now?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, he's with the officer.
operator: are you alright?
caller: i'm alright.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a plane crashed in marshfield, on 17th in lincoln, in houses.
operator: a plane crashed? oh my god. where exactly?
caller: right in the backyard at 17th and devine.
operator: you said 17th and devine?
caller: yes, the deck is on fire, and we need an ambulance and fire department.
operator: okay, slow down. a plane crash in marshfield at 17th and devine?
caller: yes, correct.
operator: all right, hang on.
caller: oh my god, i don't know if there's...
operator: is everybody okay?
caller: i don't know; i just saw it crash.
operator: is it 17th and lincoln or 17th and devine?
caller: they said devine, but i’m not sure.
operator: is the house hit or just the deck?
caller: the deck is on fire, not the house.
operator: can i get your name?
caller: my name is rebecca mcdowell.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: it's 715-305-5220.
operator: we've got an ambulance and fire department on the way. stay safe, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, we need someone out at glenwood gardens as soon as possible. there's a lady that looks like she fainted or had a heart problem.
operator: what is the address?
caller: what's the address here? do you know the address?
caller: it's glenwood gardens. it's right on the corner of the... i don't know the exact address.
operator: that's okay. where's the patient located within the building?
caller: the patient is in the dining room of the main building.
operator: okay, and what's your cell phone number in case we get disconnected?
caller: let me find out. hold on, i'm going to the front.
caller: ma'am, what's the name of this building?
caller: hi, it's building a.
operator: what's the cell phone number? do you know?
caller: the number here is 587-0021.
operator: and who am i speaking with?
caller: this is amy.
operator: just to confirm, the patient is in the dining room?
caller: yes, she is.
operator: okay, can you tell me exactly what happened?
caller: she just started passing out while she was eating.
operator: are you with the patient now?
caller: i'm close to her.
operator: about how old is she?
caller: she's in her 80s.
operator: is she awake?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: barely.
operator: alright. hang on just a second here. i've got help started, okay?
operator: is there a defibrillator available, amy? do you have one there?
caller: no, we don't.
operator: okay, i've got help on the way. i want you to stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do next. are you right by her now?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: listen carefully. i want you to lay her flat on her back on the ground and remove any pillows.
caller: okay, wait, we're going to get colleen.
operator: no, we can't wait. we need to get her flat on her back right now.
caller: okay, they are here.
operator: good. i need the phone to stay next to them. let me know as soon as she's flat on her back on the ground.
caller: okay.
caller: hi, this is colleen.
operator: hi colleen, do we have her flat on her back on the ground yet?
caller: i'm going to her right now. she's in the dining room.
operator: we can't wait. i need the phone next to the patient immediately.
caller: okay, i'm right here.
operator: flat on her back on the ground, no pillows. is she breathing?
caller: yes, she's breathing, but very slowly.
operator: place your hand on her forehead, your other hand under her neck, and tilt the head back to open the airway. put your ear next to her mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: yes, she's breathing, but it's like five breaths a minute.
operator: we need to get cpr started. can someone there do it?
caller: no, we can't do cpr.
operator: if you can't do it, i need you to hand the phone to a passerby or anyone willing to help.
caller: i understand, but there are other senior citizens who don't know cpr.
operator: is there anyone there who's willing to help?
caller: not at this time. no one will touch her.
operator: okay, is there any staff, a gardener, or a passerby who can help her?
caller: no, i don't have anyone. we have residents who are too old to help.
operator: can we flag someone down in the street? a stranger might be willing to help.
caller: i'm not sure. i'll check.
operator: has anyone gone to look for help?
caller: yes, i'm looking now.
caller: they're here right now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
scenario:robbery
caller: i'm somewhere on north hicks, and i fell through a drain cover.
operator: you fell through a drain cover?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, hold on a second. were you walking when this happened?
caller: yes.
operator: were you walking and then fell into a sewer?
caller: yeah, i'm trying to remember exactly what happened.
operator: where do you live?
caller: there's like a wood thing over the cover. it's still in place, so i don't know how i got down here.
operator: were you on the street or on the sidewalk?
caller: i'm trying to remember. i was walking north on hicks and palatine.
operator: how far down are you?
caller: it's a crate covering the opening. i'm not sure how i got down here because...
operator: you don't know how you got down there?
caller: no, because when i look up there's just a narrow opening. i don't think i displaced it.
operator: how far down are you?
caller: about four feet. i don't think i can get up. maybe four feet.
operator: you're four feet under?
caller: yeah, and there are handholds, but i don't know if i can get up here.
operator: hold on a second. what is your name?
caller: hold on a second.
operator: what is your name?
caller: can you repeat your name again, please?
caller: there's a wood crate with things in it.
operator: alright, so you were walking north on hicks. did you notice the fire department next to you?
caller: yes, i was north of the firehouse and then i'm just...
operator: what is your first name?
caller: there's a bad phone connection.
operator: are you injured?
caller: i scratched myself a bit. i'm down in a manhole about four feet down.
operator: are you able to grab hold of the handholds?
caller: it's kind of wobbly here.
operator: so you're four feet under?
caller: yeah, three or four feet. there's a crate covering the opening that i fell through.
operator: how big is that crate? what color is it?
caller: it's one of those square things, brown in color.
operator: just stay on the phone with me. we have help on the way, but our phone line is breaking up. it's going in and out. are you near the fire station?
caller: yeah, i was just north of the firehouse walking on hicks.
operator: what side of the street were you on, the side by the firehouse or the other side?
caller: by the firehouse.
operator: let me know when the fire department reaches you.
caller: okay.
operator: were you walking on the sidewalk near the firehouse?
caller: yes, but it was kind of around the back of the firehouse.
operator: do you remember crossing dundee road?
caller: no, i don't.
operator: were you on pavement or grass?
caller: i was near the shopping center cutting behind some businesses.
operator: so you were still in the firehouse area when you fell through the crate?
caller: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my home! 340 doyle.
operator: what township or borough are you in?
caller: town borough.
operator: what borough?
caller: oh, dale town.
operator: are you still in the house?
caller: yes.
operator: do you want to get out of the house?
caller: no, i'm disabled.
operator: hello?
caller: yes.
operator: she won't get out of the house. she says she's disabled.
caller: i did.
operator: 9-9-9, what’s your emergency?
caller: the line was open, but i can't hear anything.
operator: i can't hang up and try to call you back. but it's still showing that you are on the call, yet i can't hear anything at all.
caller: it sounds like she was trying to put the fire out within.
operator: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have shots fired at seven oaks cabin.
operator: copy, shots fired at seven oaks cabin. is anyone injured?
caller: we have an officer down. i repeat, officer down.
operator: copy, officer down. are you able to provide your exact location?
caller: it's approximately half a mile west of blast road and 7-0's road.
operator: copy, half a mile west of blast road and 7-0's road. medical assistance is en route. do you have eyes on the suspect?
caller: negative, we do not have eyes on the suspect.
operator: copy, no eyes on the suspect. can you provide the direction of the last known location of the suspect?
caller: it's going to be on the north side of the road. several pounds.
operator: copy, north side of the road. will relay this information to the responding units. is there any additional information?
caller: another officer is down, we need urgent assistance.
operator: copy, another officer down. medical and additional units are on the way. stay safe and keep us updated with any new information.
caller: we don't have an officer. i don't know. i'm sorry.
operator: understood. help is on the way. stay calm and take cover if needed. keep us informed of any updates.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i have a 3-year-old who's not breathing.
operator: what's the address, ma'am?
caller: 16097 north waldrop avenue, gardendale.
operator: and your phone number?
caller: 561-9489.
operator: okay, are you with him now?
caller: yes, i'm attempting cpr.
caller: he was playing outside on the playground. i'm not sure what happened.
operator: okay. not breathing at all?
caller: he does not appear to be breathing at all. i cannot get any chest rise.
operator: okay, i'm getting them on the way. do you know how to do cpr?
caller: yes, i do know how to do cpr. i'm trying to do cpr on him at this point.
operator: i'm going to put you on speaker, okay?
caller: sure, that's fine.
operator: and when did this start, ma'am?
caller: just about a minute or so ago. i'm sorry, i was trying to get him to start breathing before i called.
operator: no, that's fine. that is fine. he does not appear to be breathing at all.
operator: okay, keep breathing for him.
caller: i can get his chest to inflate, but he can't do it on his own.
operator: okay. i want you to keep breathing for him, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: does he have a pulse at all?
caller: i'm not feeling one, but i'm shaking so bad.
operator: okay, take a deep breath, take a deep breath, okay? do you have his head tilted back and his airway open?
caller: airway is open.
operator: okay, give him two breaths. feel for a pulse, okay? do you feel a pulse at all?
caller: i'm still not feeling a pulse.
operator: okay, i want you to do compressions, okay? put one hand on his chest, right on the sternum, and push down 15 times approximately one half to one inch. when you do the 15 times, i want you to tell me.
caller: okay, and give him two breaths. is anybody there with you?
caller: no.
operator: okay. i want you to keep doing compressions and two breaths, and then compressions and two breaths as long as you can, okay? you're doing a fine job, just take a breath and relax. is there anybody nearby we can call to help you while you wait on the ems?
caller: there's nobody.
operator: okay, you're doing fine. you're doing fine.
caller: i'm sorry. he's autistic. he's self-injurious.
operator: i'm sorry?
caller: he's autistic. he's a self-injurious child, prone to self-injury.
operator: okay. now stop and check his breathing. is he trying to take a breath?
caller: no, he just... his chest is not moving.
operator: okay, keep going. two breaths, 15 compressions. you're doing fine. just keep doing it as long as you can, okay? i know it's tough, but you're doing a good job.
caller: okay, you're fine. what is your name?
operator: what is your name, ma'am?
caller: laura.
operator: okay, laura. you're doing fine. take two slow deep breaths, and your 15 compressions should be about one inch deep. i want you to check his airway, look in his airway. is it still clear?
caller: the airway appears to be clear.
operator: okay, check for a pulse. are you checking for a pulse?
caller: i was checking for a heartbeat with a stethoscope.
operator: okay, do you hear anything?
caller: i don't hear anything.
operator: okay, keep going then. you're doing fine.
caller: he just had snot and blood coming out.
operator: okay. just wipe it off his face and keep going. you're doing a wonderful job.
caller: his belly's distending.
operator: you're fine. next time you give him a breath, i want you to tilt his head back even further, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: when you give him a breath, tilt his head as far back as you can, okay? when you need a quick break, check for a pulse and check his airway again, okay?
caller: are they coming?
operator: they're coming, they're driving as fast as they can, i promise. just keep doing compressions and breaths, okay?
operator: does he have any kind of medical problems, laura?
caller: he's autistic. he was just put on risperidone.
operator: okay. he's not a diabetic or anything?
caller: not that we know of.
operator: okay, keep going, you're doing good. i've got ems on the way and i've got the sheriff's department who can get there first to help you out, okay?
caller: please.
operator: they're on the way, we're getting there as quickly as we can, i promise. if you have to turn his head to the side and clear his mouth out or clear his nose out, go ahead, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: baby, max. come on.
operator: laura?
caller: yes.
operator: i've got two so deputies that are pretty close. they're going to run hot and help you with him, okay? they’re closer than ems.
operator: laura, take a deep breath and keep going, okay?
caller: uh-huh.
operator: you're doing really good, just keep going. somebody should be there any minute to help you out. are you doing okay?
caller: i can't help. okay, i'm doing good.
operator: take a deep breath. you're doing good. like i said, when you need to take a break, check for a pulse, check his airway, and let yourself catch your breath for a second.
caller: he's starting to turn colors.
operator: okay, that's fine. you keep going. is his airway still clear?
operator: check for the pulse. catch your breath.
caller: i think i got a heartbeat.
operator: can you hear it?
caller: it's really faint.
operator: okay, do you know how to feel for a carotid pulse? do you know how to feel for the pulse on his neck? it should be right next to his windpipe about the middle of the neck.
caller: okay, keep going then. if he's got a little bit of a heart rate, that’s better. just keep helping him.
operator: is your house pretty easy to find from the road, laura?
caller: no, it's just a long driveway.
operator: do you have a long, narrow driveway? what color is your house?
caller: it's a beige brick. it's set real far back from the road. there are two horses in the pasture and an old well in front of it.
operator: it’s a beige brick house with an old well in the front, and two horses in the pasture. any vehicles out front?
caller: yeah, there's a red car and an old blue truck.
operator: a red car and an old blue truck, okay? just keep going, okay. you're doing a wonderful job, laura. nobody could do any better.
caller: he's starting to smell like he's soiling himself.
operator: that's fine, that happens. keep going. they're coming; keep going. you're doing good.
operator: laura, you're doing a good job. can you get the dogs out of the way, okay?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, i'm at the westfield shopping mall, annapolis.
operator: okay.
caller: and i see some activity going on in the car, and i don't think it's proper.
operator: okay, what kind of activity is it, sir?
caller: it looks like sexual activity to me.
operator: okay, where is it closest to?
caller: i'm getting ready to walk into nordstrom's.
operator: now, is it the parking garage or an open lot?
caller: it's an open parking lot. right across the street, there's a bank, i think it's marketfield bank.
operator: what color is the vehicle?
caller: there's a gray suv, looks like a lexus, and a little black chevy. it's parked at the edge of the parking lot by the street.
operator: okay. does it look like there are naked people in the car?
caller: yes. it doesn't seem right to me.
operator: okay, that's fine. i'm going to get an officer out there to check on them. what is your name, sir?
caller: i prefer not to give my name.
operator: okay, i have the call and we're going to get an officer out there, okay?
caller: okay. they'll see a light blue car parked right beside them which also has a black top.
operator: okay. are any lights on in the vehicles?
caller: no, no lights.
operator: okay, i'll let them know. we'll get an officer out there, okay?
caller: all right. thanks a lot.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
caller: hello? i just called about some activity in a car.
operator: yes, i remember. tell the police officer where you are.
caller: the officer is in the parking lot, but he's almost by the car now. he just passed it.
operator: just passed the vehicle?
caller: yes, he just passed the vehicle. can you tell him to stop? i'm in the store, too far away to signal him.
operator: okay, i'm talking to the dispatcher to inform the officer. he just passed the car, correct?
caller: yes, he needs to turn back around. he has to go up the middle aisle.
operator: okay, and which vehicle did he pass?
caller: it's a small black chevy, not an suv, a small car. it's parked by a lexus suv.
operator: okay, got it. the officer will turn around and go up the middle aisle.
caller: yes, he'll see it when he stops and looks to his left.
operator: understood, we'll inform the officer.
caller: all right, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: uh, 5001, there's a man with a gun.
operator: 5001, what street, sir?
caller: uh, camden road.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling me from?
caller: huh?
operator: what's the phone number you're calling me from?
caller: uh...
operator: you said there's a man with a gun? where is he at?
caller: he's sitting on the porch.
operator: what does he look like, sir? black, white, asian, or hispanic?
caller: white, gray beard.
operator: gray beard?
caller: yeah.
operator: what color shirt?
caller: he's wearing a white shirt with blue stripes.
operator: and he's just sitting there with it?
caller: yeah, he's just sitting there with it, but he has threatened.
operator: he threatened who?
caller: the neighbors. they were outside.
operator: okay, we have officers on the way. if anything changes, please call us right back.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're welcome. bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 5001 camden road.
operator: repeat the address for verification.
caller: 5001 camden road.
operator: okay, and what's the phone number you are calling from?
caller: it's, uh, geez, it's my cell phone. i don't even know my own cell phone number.
operator: is it?
caller: yeah, that's it.
operator: what's your name?
caller: susan brandon.
operator: okay, susan, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: my ex-husband is sitting outside, and i think he just called 999. he's got a pellet gun, and i think he's saying...
operator: did you already call us?
caller: my ex-husband is calling you right now. i just wanted to let you know that he doesn't have a real gun. he's calling to say that somebody has a gun outside. he's drunk, and i think he wants to be taken away.
operator: what's your ex-husband's name?
caller: ronald brandon. he's been staying with me, and he's drunk.
operator: and he said that someone else had a gun?
caller: yes, and it's him. i think.
operator: does he have a gun?
scenario:medical
caller: no, he has a pellet gun.
operator: is it loaded?
caller: no, i don't think so. i'm pretty sure there are no pellets in it.
operator: okay. why did your husband call us?
caller: i think he wants to end his drunkenness. you know what i mean?
caller: oh god, here the sirens are coming. jesus christ. it's not a real gun. i think he wants to be taken away.
operator: okay. so susan, you did not call us earlier, right?
caller: no, i did not.
operator: okay. what race is your husband?
caller: he's white.
operator: describe him.
caller: he's got a beard. he's 48 years old. he's wearing a striped shirt and jean shorts.
operator: striped shirt and shorts. susan, what's going on?
caller: oh my god.
operator: what's going on, susan?
caller: they shot him.
operator: they shot your husband?
caller: oh god.
operator: i think we have shots fired on camden.
operator: okay, stay calm. is your husband shot?
caller: yes, he's shot.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me, okay? stay in the house.
caller: oh god.
operator: stay in the house.
caller: yes.
caller: i'm on with 999.
operator: listen, ma'am, we have help on the way, okay? stay inside the house, susan.
caller: oh god, thank you. they shot him. there's nobody else around.
operator: okay, regardless of what kind of gun he had, he must have brandished it at the officers, okay?
caller: i was calling to tell you it's a pellet gun.
caller: oh god.
caller: oh jesus.
operator: can you see your husband now?
caller: he's lying there with blood on him.
operator: from his head?
caller: yes, i think it's from his head.
operator: susan, who's yelling?
caller: the officer is yelling. i'm on with 999, okay?
operator: are the officers asking you to come out?
caller: he's just telling me to move.
operator: do not move. tell them it's a pellet gun.
caller: i called 999 to say it's a pellet gun, okay?
operator: who are you talking to, susan?
caller: i'm talking to the officer who's aiming a rifle at me.
caller: oh god, i can't believe this is happening.
caller: i called 999 to tell them it was a pellet gun. i can't believe they shot him.
caller: i can't believe it.
operator: do you want me to hang up or stay on the phone with you, susan?
caller: no, you don't have to.
operator: okay. i'll let you talk to the officers.
caller: all right, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh! oh my god.
operator: can you calm down and tell me what's going on, please?
caller: i'm out at the beach right now. we just got struck by lightning!
operator: do you need police, fire, or medical attention?
caller: i need an ambulance. my boyfriend is not breathing.
operator: okay, stay on the line. i will connect you.
caller: baby, say something! babe, say something!
operator: where is the emergency?
caller: we're at the beach, past lanikai. there's a building being built nearby.
operator: are you with your boyfriend now?
caller: yes, i'm with him. he's on the ground.
operator: are there any flames or smoke?
caller: no, there are no flames or smoke.
operator: how many of you were struck by lightning?
caller: three of us. my boyfriend, the driver, and me.
operator: is anyone else nearby who can help?
caller: there's a couple of people coming over now.
operator: okay, i need you to place your hand on your boyfriend's stomach and see if it's going up and down. is he breathing?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: okay, we need to start cpr. place your hand on his forehead and tilt his head back. are you able to do that?
caller: yes, someone is helping now.
operator: is there anyone there who's cpr certified?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: keep doing the cpr. help is on the way. where exactly are you again?
caller: we're behind hooters on the beach.
operator: okay, we'll get someone there as quickly as possible. how is he doing now?
caller: he's trying to breathe. please hurry.
operator: you're doing great. just keep trying and stay calm. help is almost there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, we're at 7420 south howell, and some guy is shooting a gun at the temple.
operator: 7420 south howell? is he inside the temple with the gun, sir?
caller: yes, he's inside.
operator: stay on the line, transferring you to oak creek police. hold on.
caller: okay.
operator: oak creek 9-9-9, where's your emergency?
caller: there's a man shooting inside the sikh temple at 7420 south howell.
operator: we have officers on the way. stay safe and indoors.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm calling from 7512 south howell. there is shooting happening.
operator: did anyone get hit, sir?
caller: i'm not sure. there's continuous shooting.
operator: stay on the line, transferring you to oak creek police. hold on.
caller: okay.
operator: oak creek 9-9-9, where's your emergency?
caller: there's a man with a gun shooting inside the sikh temple at 7512 south howell.
operator: we have officers on scene. stay safe.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a shooting at 7512 south howell.
operator: the police are already on scene, sir. is there anything new to report?
caller: no, i was just checking.
operator: thank you for the call. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: moving to the basement, 131 front street between main and north.
operator: is there anyone injured?
caller: unsure at this time if anyone is injured.
operator: shots are coming from the second floor. a suspect is still in the building.
caller: it's responding. stand by and we need backup.
operator: can you confirm your current location again?
caller: 131 front street. possible shooting.
operator: do you have any information on the assailant?
caller: not confirmed. they may be in the basement or the main floor. there is no second story.
operator: understood. we're sending officers to the rear of the building. do you have a description of the suspect?
caller: not clearly. there are reports of two victims and multiple people barricaded in the basement.
operator: alright, we are mobilizing swat. stay put.
caller: noted. we'll stay in position. do you need us to do anything?
operator: yes, make sure all available units head to 131 front street and stage at oak and main.
caller: 10-4. we'll set a perimeter and wait for equipment.
operator: notify ems to stage at main and oak street.
caller: confirmed. ems has been notified.
operator: we're coordinating with headquarters for additional support.
caller: 10-4. proceeding with caution. suspect may still be armed.
operator: received. we'll also stage tow trucks to clear any blocking vehicles.
caller: 10-4. will ensure all personnel are advised to use cover.
operator: the back door appears to be breached. suspect may have shot themselves.
caller: understood. but still proceed with caution.
operator: we need the building's layout. contact building management.
caller: understood. will do.
operator: confirm if any victims are still inside.
caller: attempting to contact someone with details.
operator: keep them calm and secure. lock or barricade doors if possible.
caller: no locks on the doors. they are using furniture to barricade.
operator: stay put. help is on the way.
caller: 10-25. will relay information from inside.
operator: we're sending more units to secure the perimeter.
caller: affirmative. suspect's vehicle is blocking the back door.
operator: hold position. swat is en route.
caller: 10-4. will maintain current position.
operator: we're closing all roads near main and front street.
caller: understood. coordinating with traffic control.
operator: alert, suspect may still be in the basement. proceed with extreme caution.
caller: roger that. ems is staging and waiting for clearance.
operator: keep updating us with any new information from inside the building.
caller: all right. if you have contact with people inside, ensure they know to stay put.
operator: victims are being extracted and transported to hospitals.
caller: received. we'll keep monitoring from our end.
operator: all available personnel should report to the staging area.
caller: understood. we'll keep eyes on any movement inside.
operator: any officers at security cameras location, report back.
caller: copy that. looking into security footage now.
operator: advise all emergency personnel of current status. building is not yet secure.
caller: 10-4. circulating to all units.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: shots fired. officer down. officer down.
operator: can you provide your location?
caller: 6,004 rachel court.
operator: 6,004 rachel court, got it. we'll dispatch units immediately. are you an officer?
caller: yes, i'm down. i can't move.
operator: is there another officer with you? are they okay?
caller: he's down, i'm not sure if he's okay. i think he's dead. the suspect is in the house with a rifle.
operator: stay with us. do you have a visual on the suspect?
caller: no, i can't see where he's at. he shot us both from inside the house. he might be coming back to finish us off.
operator: stay low and keep cover. do not expose yourself. we have help on the way.
caller: i believe he has a high-powered rifle. my leg is destroyed. i can't move.
operator: just hold on, stay behind cover. help is on the way. can you maintain any kind of visual from your position?
caller: no, i can't stick my head out. i'm just held up behind my car here. i'm losing a lot of blood.
operator: stay with us. just hang on. more officers are arriving on the scene. we need you to stay conscious.
caller: 19 is on the scene, more shots fired.
operator: understood. do you have a clear view of where the shots are coming from?
caller: no, i'll be out on foot, with my mobile phone.
operator: units are already shutting down intersections to secure the area.
caller: 14 10 23. shutting the intersection down at cordon ridge.
operator: clear. do you have any eye on the suspect yet?
caller: this is a second. he's firing multiple shots. trying to get a visual to stop him from a distance.
operator: stand by. we need to secure the front of this house. the suspect has the ability to shoot from here.
caller: we're trying, but we're totally unprotected here.
operator: understood. everyone, stay under cover. we'll coordinate a safe approach.
caller: i haven't heard anything from 2216 for a while. i'm not sure he's still conscious.
operator: 2216, if you can hear me, click your mic.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: she'll be on the floor.
operator: i'm going to tell you how to help deliver the baby, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: make sure all the clothing below her waist is removed.
caller: okay.
operator: don't let her sit up.
caller: all right, that's fine.
operator: is she set up and lying down?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. and what's your name?
caller: you there?
operator: yes, i'm here. is your front door unlocked?
caller: the back door is. the back door is unlocked.
operator: okay, they are on their way. just stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: make sure all the clothing below her waist is removed. raise her head with pillows, but don't let her sit up or go to the bathroom, even if she feels like she has to.
caller: she feels like she has to.
operator: that's natural. just tell her not to worry about it and stay where she is.
caller: okay.
operator: now i want you to get some dry towels and a blanket to wrap the baby in, and get a string or a shoelace to tie around the umbilical cord after the delivery. is she pushing or straining?
caller: is she straining? yes.
operator: okay, tell her not to strain. but there's a lot of blood. can you see any part of the baby at all?
caller: no.
operator: there should still be some time left before delivery occurs, okay? reassure her that help is on the way.
caller: okay.
operator: keep your phone with you. i want you to take slow, deep breaths between each contraction, okay? and if anything changes, tell me immediately.
caller: okay.
caller: okay, she's feeling a little more relaxed right now.
operator: that's good. let me know if she pushes or strains or if you see any part of the baby.
caller: hey, where are you? karen, you there?
caller: okay, my partner is in the car. so just go ahead and get them.
caller: she feels like she has to poop?
operator: yes, that feeling is part of labor. just keep her where she is and get her to breathe through it. we don't want her to push yet.
caller: okay, so the head is coming out more?
operator: as the baby delivers, support the baby's head and shoulders and hold the hips and legs firmly. remember, the baby is going to be slippery. don't drop it. tell me what's happening.
caller: okay, she's relaxed right now.
caller: but the baby comes a little through every time.
operator: we just want to make sure it doesn't come out too fast. is she pushing?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: is the baby coming out?
caller: no, not yet.
caller: i feel a lot of blood.
operator: when the next contraction comes and she feels the urge to push, have her push hard to get the baby out.
caller: okay, i see the forehead.
operator: tell her to push hard and remember to support the baby's head and shoulders.
caller: okay, the head is out, but the shoulders aren't.
operator: in fact, the paramedics are there, okay? just focus on what you're doing right now.
caller: got the baby, but...
operator: support the head. is the whole baby out?
caller: yes, she's out.
operator: is it a boy or a girl?
caller: it's a girl!
operator: congratulations, i can hear her crying.
caller: yes, we have a baby.
operator: are the paramedics there?
caller: yes, they are here.
operator: are they with you in the room?
caller: yes, they're handling it now.
operator: okay, congratulations.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello? there's an emergency.
operator: okay, what's going on? where are you calling from?
caller: this is the blocobank at 1302 west international speedway boulevard.
operator: got it. where in the bank are you?
caller: he's saying he has a bomb, and he has a taser.
operator: okay, is he a white male, black male?
caller: white male.
operator: alright. what is he wearing?
caller: black beanie, black hat, light beige-gray tweed jacket.
operator: what else can you tell me about him? where is he in the bank?
caller: i'm not sure exactly. he's probably in our vault right now.
scenario:robbery
operator: okay, are you safe?
caller: yes, i'm hiding in the kitchen.
operator: who's in the vault with him?
caller: our service manager and our vault teller.
operator: alright. stay on the line with me as long as you can. any information you can get me would be very helpful.
caller: one of the girls in the lobby saw him; he came to a platform person, not a teller.
operator: did he bring a bag with him?
caller: yes, a red duffel bag. he threatened to detonate the bomb if we called, so i'm hiding.
operator: did he mention any other weapons besides the bomb and taser?
caller: no, that's all he said.
operator: alright. did he display any other weapons?
caller: no, but he mentioned he has a .45 caliber.
operator: okay. about how tall is he?
caller: six foot, middle-aged.
operator: alright. we have several units on the scene. can you stay on the phone?
caller: he just walked out. he's wearing a gray jacket, black beanie, black sunglasses, and carrying a big red bag.
operator: do you see which direction he went?
caller: he's at the back door now. i see the police; they're pointing their guns at him.
operator: okay, try to stay hidden and safe. just keep me on the line.
caller: the cops got him. they have him at gunpoint.
operator: alright. ensure everyone in the bank stays calm and away from the suspect.
caller: they're telling us to lock down and get away from the area.
operator: yes, follow the officers' instructions. if they're telling you to evacuate, hang up and carefully listen to them.
caller: thank you for your help.
operator: you did great. stay safe and follow the officers' instructions.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, hey, i need a sheriff.
operator: what's the location of the emergency?
caller: the corner of reef and weimus.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: i got three people attacking people.
operator: they're attacking kids?
caller: yes, sir.
operator: okay, is there any way you can get the kids away from them?
caller: no, they have four guys here with bats.
caller: i got this kid who was badly injured.
operator: how old are the kids?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: are they like teenagers or little kids?
caller: they're little kids. like toddlers.
caller: hey, come back. you got to stay here, bud.
caller: i know, i know it hurts, my man. i know it hurts.
caller: hey, i'm getting help over here, okay?
operator: how many kids are injured, sir?
caller: there's one kid. just one kid.
operator: do you have an ambulance coming?
caller: yes, we're getting an ambulance on the way.
operator: where are the attackers right now?
caller: i got them. they decided to take off. they're on the road somewhere, man.
operator: is that the child i'm hearing in the background?
caller: yeah, it is, man.
operator: okay, sir. let me get southwest ambulance on the line with us, okay? stay on the line, don't hang up.
caller: no, you're not, man. you're not.
caller: i got to.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i believe i may have a possible heroin overdose.
operator: do you have a possible heroin overdose?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: are you the one that took it?
caller: my wife, my wife, she's turning blue.
operator: she's turning blue? is she breathing?
caller: no.
operator: okay, do you know how to do cpr?
caller: i've been doing it. i'm trying to do it.
operator: where are you at?
caller: 8776, state route 41.
operator: 8776, state route 41?
caller: yes.
operator: how old is your wife?
caller: 41.
operator: she's 41 years old?
caller: yes.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: robert payne.
operator: robert payne? spell your last name for me.
caller: c-r-a-n-e.
operator: and what's her name, robert?
caller: christine.
operator: how long ago has it been since she's taken it?
caller: probably an hour ago, but we fell asleep.
operator: an hour ago?
caller: yes.
operator: is she on the floor?
caller: i put her in bed.
operator: you put her in bed? i need you to get her on the floor.
caller: okay.
operator: did you wake up and find her like this?
caller: yes. yes, she's on the floor now.
operator: okay. i'm going to tell you how to do cpr, okay? tilt her head back, put your hand on her forehead, and put your fingers on her chin to open up her airway.
caller: okay, i've got her on speaker phone.
operator: is there anything in her mouth? can you see anything?
caller: no.
operator: now can you feel any air going in or out?
caller: maybe. i don't think so.
operator: i want you to give her two breaths, like you're blowing up a balloon. pinch her nose shut and give two breaths.
caller: okay.
operator: can you see her chest rising?
caller: i was trying to see if it was rising.
operator: place the heel of one hand on her breastbone, right in the center of her chest, between her nipples. put the other hand on top. push down firmly about two inches with the heels of your hands. pump that chest hard and fast 30 times.
caller: okay.
operator: count them out for me.
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
operator: okay, now tilt her head back again, pinch her nose, and give her two more breaths.
caller: did you get her two breaths, robert?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, start doing chest compressions again. put your hands back in the center of her chest and start doing 30 more.
caller: i think i did something stupid. i had gum in my mouth.
operator: did it go in hers?
caller: i think she's breathing now.
operator: do you think she's breathing?
caller: no.
operator: okay, keep doing cpr, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: did you give her two more breaths?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, now you need to do 30 more compressions. put your hands on the center of her chest and push down 30 times again.
caller: it sounds like fluid in her chest.
operator: turn her to her side if something comes out of her mouth. try to get it out. is there anything coming out?
caller: no.
caller: are you doing the compressions again?
caller: yes, but on the side.
operator: roll her back over on her back and do 30 more, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is she still warm, robert, or is she cold when you touch her?
caller: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
operator: what's your telephone number, robert?
caller: 927-750-0003.
operator: okay, robert, i need you to give her two more breaths.
caller: i leave the top open so i don't want to hear me?
operator: i can't hear you for the dog, robert. did you give her two more breaths?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, now push on her chest 30 more times.
caller: is there somebody else there with you? who's with you?
caller: he's talking to 999.
caller: ma'am?
operator: yes.
caller: this is 9520.
operator: okay.
caller: i'm doing cpr.
operator: they're on their way.
caller: is this billy?
caller: yes.
operator: billy, the squad's on their way.
operator: okay, honey.
operator: i'll let you go ahead and do cpr, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: alright. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i shot my husband.
operator: okay. what's the address of your emergency?
caller: watch my drive.
operator: okay. what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: 
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: he shot me several times.
operator: okay. hold on for me.
caller: okay.
operator: all right, ma'am. are you with your husband now?
caller: he took his weapon and walked down the hall.
operator: okay. how old is your husband?
caller: 
operator: is he awake? is he breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: he is breathing? okay. tell me your name.
caller: 
operator: all right, you're on the phone with me, okay? and what i need for you to do is put that gun down, okay?
caller: it's in the living room.
operator: okay. i do have the ambulance on the way. is there any serious bleeding?
caller: the way he's lying, i can't tell, but it should be.
operator: okay. where did you shoot him?
caller: i'm not sure.
operator: he was trying to shoot you?
caller: yeah, my deadline was at one o'clock. i'm supposed to die at one o'clock.
operator: so he was trying to shoot you too and you took the gun from him?
caller: oh, you have a gun.
operator: okay, and you have both guns now?
caller: i gave him one and i reached for the other one. he started firing.
operator: okay, so he shot at you, and you shot at him?
caller: yes.
operator: are you injured?
caller: i'm not really sure.
operator: okay. just stay on the phone with me. i have ems, police, and fire department coming. where is he in the house?
caller: 
operator: where are you in the house?
caller: i got all over it.
operator: okay. you don't have the gun in your hand?
caller: no.
operator: what's going on?
caller: it's the police.
operator: okay. step outside and do what they say. just go ahead and put the gun down.
caller: they're here.
operator: okay. just put the phone down and do what they say.
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's a dead man at the park at 31st avenue in belmont.
operator: okay. are you sure he's dead?
caller: yes. at the west end of the park.
operator: okay, give me that address to the park one more time?
caller: pardon me?
operator: what's the address to the park one more time?
caller: the 31st avenue in northern on the west end of the park, the west end.
operator: okay, do you know the name of the park?
caller: i'm not sure. i can't remember it. 31st avenue in belmont, just south of northern.
operator: okay.
caller: there's two dogs trying to wake him up. he's tattooed and it looks like he's nude.
operator: okay, does anything else look suspicious besides him being naked? does he look like he's been shot, beaten up?
caller: i can't tell. the park has been irrigated and these dogs are tearing him up.
operator: are they biting him?
caller: yeah, they're biting his arm. they're trying to pull him. oh, i think he's alive, but they need to get somebody over here right away.
operator: okay, i'm going to get officers rolling. don't hang up with me.
caller: okay.
operator: does he have any clothing on whatsoever?
caller: no, just shoes. it looks like his clothes are scattered around or something scattered around. i can't tell because of the water.
operator: does he look like he's still kind of out of it?
caller: yeah, he's yelling now because the dogs have got his arm all torn up. i don't have my gun or i'd shoot the dogs right now. they've got his arm shredded.
operator: okay, do they look like pit bulls or?
caller: they're pit bulls. and they've got his arm, i mean, his arm is shredded to the bone, and they're just tearing him up.
operator: okay. i've got officers going. don't hang up with me.
caller: okay.
operator: are other people trying to scare the dogs off?
caller: pardon me?
operator: are other people trying to scare the dogs off?
caller: yeah, there's a cab driver trying to scare the dogs off. but they're not leaving. can you hear the guy yelling?
operator: yeah, i can hear him. i've got officers rolling. i've got somebody else calling the fire department.
caller: okay.
operator: do you have two pit bulls?
caller: two pit bulls. it looks like two females, maybe. dogs! hey, get, get!
operator: okay, are they still on top of him?
caller: yeah, they're tearing him up. his arm is shredded to the bone.
operator: they're driving as fast as they can, sir. i'm showing that they are arriving at the park. do you see them?
caller: here they come now.
operator: okay, can you wave them down and show them where they are if they can't see him?
caller: okay.
operator: okay. what is your name?
caller: sam nasser. shoot those dogs!
caller: joe, come here, come here, go ahead. go, you come here, come here, come here, come here. joe, come here!
operator: okay, is everything okay now?
caller: yeah, go ahead and talk to them, okay?
operator: okay, bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't know, please help me.
operator: what's the address of your emergency?
caller: i love me. i just don't know where we are.
operator: are you at a house or a business?
operator: can you find a piece of mail or ask someone there for the address?
operator: what city are you in?
caller: santaquin.
operator: is there someone there that knows the address?
caller: i'm sorry, i was just on main street.
operator: can you see a number on a business or anything around you?
caller: no, we're not near a building, we're in the road.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i don't know, it's a lady's phone.
operator: what's the emergency there?
operator: i need you to take a deep breath and tell me what's wrong.
caller: nobody took us, nobody took us.
scenario:medical
operator: i can't understand what's going on. what happened?
caller: he took us in his car.
operator: someone took you in his car?
caller: yeah.
operator: are you still in the car?
caller: no, we got out of the car.
operator: are you okay right now?
caller: i don't know what to do.
operator: where's the person that took you?
caller: i don't know where they went.
operator: are they still there with you?
caller: no, they're gone.
operator: okay, i need you to take a deep breath. what's your name?
caller: my name is amber.
operator: are you in the street?
caller: yeah, we're in the street.
operator: how long ago did he leave?
caller: like, 10 minutes ago.
operator: what kind of car was it?
caller: it was a red car, i think an suv.
operator: do you know the license plate number?
caller: no, i don't know the license plate number.
operator: which direction did they go?
caller: i don't know where we are.
operator: do they go towards the freeway?
caller: i don't know where that is.
operator: amber, i have some help coming to you. are you by yourself?
caller: no, they have my friend too.
operator: okay, how old are you?
caller: i'm 16.
operator: is the officer with you right now?
caller: not yet.
operator: amber, what's your last name?
caller: how do you spell it?
caller: what's your friend's name?
caller: bree.
operator: can you spell bree's name?
caller: b-r-e-e.
operator: okay, do you need an ambulance?
caller: i don't know. my friend is hurt, but i think she's okay.
operator: can you see a police car?
caller: yes, he is here now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm calling because i'm on my way to work going northbound on redwood road.
caller: right around just a little south of the harvest hills area on the west side of redwood, i saw a man walking with a samurai sword.
operator: how many minutes ago was this?
caller: about 5 minutes ago.
operator: and he was on the west side of the road?
caller: yep. he was walking in the direction of walmart.
operator: can you describe him for me? how old did he look?
caller: he looked young, maybe between 20 and 30 years old.
operator: what race was he?
caller: i'm not sure, but he might have been black or polynesian.
operator: about how tall did he seem?
caller: it's hard to say, but he wasn't overly tall. maybe around six feet.
operator: could you estimate his weight?
caller: he was fairly skinny, probably around 150 pounds.
operator: what color hair did he have?
caller: black. it was kind of an afro style, but pulled back a little bit, like a giant bun on the back of his head.
operator: and you said he had a red shirt? what color pants?
caller: i don't remember the color of his pants.
operator: okay, hold on one second.
operator: alright. and your name, sir?
operator: got a phone number we can reach you at?
operator: alright. we'll go ahead and get this out to an officer, and we'll have them go check the area. if they have any questions, they will contact you by phone.
caller: sounds good. thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
caller: bye.
operator: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am. i just shot my daughter and shot all my grandkids, and i'll be sitting on my step, and when you get here, i'm going to shoot myself.
operator: what is the address that you're at, sir?
caller: 2550 northwest, 25th, 25 paris, downstairs. every one of them are dead.
operator: you said your name is don spirit?
caller: yep.
operator: all right, don, what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it doesn't matter what kind of gun i got. they're all dead, and when you get here, i'll shoot myself, and then you can figure out what kind of gun it is.
operator: how long ago did this happen, don?
caller: i don't want to hear it, man. i'm done with all of it. just bring the officers out here, that's all.
operator: you've got all the kids dead in the house?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, how many people, exactly?
caller: six kids, one adult.
operator: six kids and one adult?
caller: yeah. one of them is a baby.
operator: can you stay on the phone with me until i get somebody there to help you?
caller: what's that?
operator: can you stay on the phone with me?
caller: no, i'm not doing that. i'm waiting for them to get here. when they get here, i'm going to shoot myself on my back step.
operator: did you say you're on your back steps?
caller: yep.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, my name is andrew komkoski. i'm ceo of the chief financial credit union headquartered in berlin.
operator: okay.
caller: i just received a call a few minutes ago from one of our vps who states that he's a victim of a home invasion overnight. his mom, who resides with him, is strapped to a bomb as well as him. he's instructing me to evacuate our branch in new britain because one of the perpetrators is going to accompany him to collect cash. and i have no reason not to believe what he's saying or how he feels.
operator: okay. where does he live?
caller: he lives in bristol.
operator: okay. and you need the branch in new britain evacuated?
caller: i am instructing the staff there to vacate the branch and come to berlin, correct.
caller: i don't know who to talk to. this isn't a normal circumstance. i probably need to talk to some officer in charge.
operator: okay, because you're either going to need to go to new britain or you're going to have to go to bristol. did he contact bristol police about what's going on?
caller: no, he contacted me and he told me not to contact authorities. i need the phone number.
operator: okay, let me transfer you to bristol, please.
caller: okay, thank you.
caller: i was transferred from berlin dispatch.
caller: hey, karen, can you shut my door? i'm sorry.
caller: my name is andrew klemkowski. i'm the president and ceo of the chief financial credit union. we have our main headquarters in berlin. five minutes ago, i just received a call on my cell phone from one of our vps, who resides in bristol, stating that he and his mom, who live together, are victims of a home invasion overnight. he states that he's strapped to a bomb, he's sitting in his car in the garage, and the perpetrators also put a bomb under his mother's bed. he's instructing me to vacate our new britain branch because they are going to come and rob it for cash and that the employees are to leave. i have no reason not to believe him.
operator: okay. what's the address, sir, that he lives at?
caller: he lives on lufkin lane. do you know the house number? i do. hold on.
operator: and have you contacted your new britain office while i have you here, or did you call us first?
caller: i called 999 and got berlin, so they transferred me to bristol first because that's where he resides.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: he's here now. he's in the house.
operator: he's in the house? what's the address?
caller: 26.
operator: okay, let's stay on the phone, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you advise? is this going to be north or south of 65?
caller: okay, 65.
operator: okay, they wanted me to tell you to get yourself in a secure area.
caller: jerry just shot him. he's in the lane in the middle of the kitchen floor, so he was here and he was to get it.
operator: all units responding, subject has been shot by the homeowner.
caller: okay, i'm going to hang up.
operator: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, shots fired at st. james catholic church on harrison.
operator: okay, and did you see the person who did this?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: who was it?
caller: i'm not sure who it was, but i heard shots...someone is down.
operator: okay, someone has been shot?
caller: yes.
operator: where is the person who was shot?
caller: inside the church, st. james catholic church.
operator: where is the person who did this?
caller: he ran away. i think his name is charles jennings.
operator: and where is charles jennings right now?
caller: he went to get his son.
operator: is he in a vehicle or on foot?
caller: i think he's in a white '94 oldsmobile cutlass.
operator: and where is he heading?
caller: he might be heading to a house near ben lomond high.
operator: okay. who is the victim that was shot?
caller: his name is james evans.
operator: is james evans conscious? do you know where he was shot?
caller: i'm not sure. i'm outside the church right now.
operator: can you describe charles jennings?
caller: he's a white male with tattoos, but i don't know what he's wearing.
operator: is there someone inside with the victim?
caller: yes, there are people inside, and an officer just arrived.
operator: okay, did he shoot james evans inside the church?
caller: yes, he shot him in the head.
operator: is there a registered nurse there?
caller: yes, his wife tara evans is a registered nurse.
operator: can i get your name, sir?
caller: my name is joe callan.
operator: thank you, joe. please stay on the line if you have any more information.
caller: okay, i will.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm sitting in the park at west boulevard by the west boulevard rapid transportation station. there's a guy here with a pistol. it’s probably fake, but he's pointing it at everybody.
operator: and where are you at, sir?
caller: i'm sitting in the park at west boulevard by the west boulevard rapid transit station.
operator: so you're at the rapid station?
caller: no, i'm sitting across the street in the park.
operator: what's the name of the park?
caller: kudel.
caller: the guy keeps pulling it in and out of his pants. it’s probably fake, but he's scaring everyone.
operator: what does he look like?
caller: he has a camouflage hat on.
operator: is he black or white?
caller: he's black. he has a gray coat with black sleeves and gray pants.
operator: so he has a camouflage hat, gray coat with black sleeves, and gray pants?
caller: yes, he's sitting on a swing right now, but he keeps pulling it in and out of his pants and pointing it at people. probably a juvenile.
operator: do you know the guy?
caller: no, i don’t.
operator: okay, we've dispatched the police, stay where you are.
caller: i'm getting ready to leave. he’s right by the youth center. he keeps pulling it in and out of his pants. i don’t know if it’s real or not.
operator: okay, we’ll send a call through. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i apologize for this because i just called your number and it says that the desk is closed so to reach a police officer, i had to call 999.
operator: that's right, how may i help you?
caller: i would like for a police officer to give me a call.
operator: okay, and what are you reporting?
caller: i just have some concerns about somebody that i know in this area, it doesn't feel right to me.
operator: okay, and is this, are you seeing this from around your house?
caller: well, i had a person that i met this summer that all of a sudden has showed up on my doorstep.
operator: okay, what's your home address so i can make sure we're in the right area and then i'll have an officer call you?
operator: are you being harassed?
caller: no, i'm not being harassed. no, there are just some concerns i have because he's got somebody with him and i'm not feeling comfortable about the whole situation.
operator: is he there now?
caller: no. that's why i want to talk to an officer about this, so maybe they can help.
operator: so, okay, i need to know what he's doing that's making you feel uneasy.
caller: he's got a young girl with him. he is 28 and she's like 15.
operator: okay. gotcha.
operator: and what is your name?
operator: do you prefer contact on your cell or at home?
caller: the cell number.
operator: okay, i'll have an officer call you.
caller: thank you.
operator: you bet. goodbye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i was given this number by deputy stacey.
operator: okay.
operator: and will you get to him and what is this about?
caller: he'll know.
operator: do you have a case number or anything?
caller: no, i just got done talking to him like five minutes ago.
caller: shots fired! we have an officer down! shots fired at walmart and port orchard. officer down. officers need help at walmart. we have two officers down and the suspect shot. we need backup now.
operator: copy. officers down. backup is being dispatched. is the scene secure for aid?
caller: affirmative.
operator: copy, secure for aid.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello.
operator: hello. can you tell me what happened?
caller: i need help. my dad is hurt.
operator: does he need an ambulance or police?
caller: police.
operator: hi, can i talk to your dad?
caller: okay.
operator: does he need an ambulance or police?
caller: ask him if he needs police.
caller: he's right here, you have to come right away.
operator: ask him if he needs police or ambulance.
caller: it’s okay. no, can i talk to him?
caller: just come now. i'm talking.
operator: it's okay. does he need an ambulance?
caller: you have to come right now.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me, okay?
operator: sir, do you need an ambulance?
caller: they're everywhere. you really have to come.
operator: okay, the police are on their way.
caller: can you unlock the door for them?
caller: okay.
operator: stay on the phone. put the phone down and go open the door, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: come in!
operator: sir, can you tell me what happened?
caller: i was trying to work on something and it started bleeding.
operator: apply pressure on the wound, okay? do you have any cloths?
caller: yes, i have a red one here.
operator: good, use that to apply pressure and stay calm. help is on the way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: listen, i cannot understand you.
operator: i can't understand you. what address are you at?
caller: i shot oxygen. i go in the water.
operator: you're in the water? your vehicle's in the water?
caller: yeah, yeah.
operator: you don't have any idea where you're at?
caller: no.
operator: are you in an apartment complex?
caller: no, man, this avenue. 86 is three, almost wild, man.
operator: you're at 86 and where?
caller: 86. i don't know what is michigan.
operator: okay, you're at 86, but you're not sure where you're at on 86?
caller: no, man, please tell me.
scenario:domestic
operator: all right, just a moment.
caller: please tell me.
operator: that's what i'm trying to do.
caller: sure, tell me, please.
operator: it's an 86... township, okay? stay on the line with me, ma'am.
caller: man, please.
operator: yes, i'm going to. just a moment. are you still in the car?
caller: yeah, man. they come in the way.
operator: for ems, hang on. vehicle in water, 86th, township. i have a female in the car. i'm going to stay with you until someone gets there.
caller: yeah, man, please.
operator: i will stay right with you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: she's in the water, 86th and township, the female's in the vehicle that we have on the line. what's your name, hon?
caller: elizabeth.
operator: elizabeth?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, elizabeth. we have people on the way to help you, okay? hey, you're still in the water, right?
caller: right, please send them my way over there.
operator: ma'am, calm down. we're sending people to you right now, all right? just stay calm. are you injured at all? are you hurt?
caller: no, i'm not hurt, but i'm in the water.
operator: we're on the way, ma'am. we're not going to let you go.
caller: yeah, we're sending a lot of people to help you, okay?
operator: okay, there should be an officer pulling up now. what kind of car are you in, elizabeth?
caller: stay with me now, honey.
caller: okay.
operator: how high is the water in the car, hon? are you all right?
operator: is there an officer with you?
operator: okay.
operator: is there anybody else in the car with you?
caller: okay, there's someone with you.
operator: okay, do you have a child or anyone with you?
caller: okay.
operator: all right, go ahead and hang up, honey.
caller: okay. everybody else good, man.
operator: we're out of here.
operator: awesome. go ahead.
operator: she's out of the vehicle. 152, 114.
operator: go ahead.
operator: she's out. she's okay, and it's 478 okay.
operator: go, get in here.
operator: in 476, he's fine, just a little wet. see, i'm always out of the water.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have a signal 14, possible signal 20f, headed to east university from cassadaga.
operator: can you describe the vehicle?
caller: it's an extended cab white chevy with a ladder sticking out of the back. the driver is brian lankford, wearing camo clothing.
operator: is he armed?
caller: yes, he mentioned he is signal zero with a gun and his license is over.
operator: what is his last known location?
caller: last seen at 143 cassadaga road, possibly headed towards east university.
operator: copy that. we'll start units in that area.
caller: thank you. 11 charlie 71 en route to east university.
operator: is there another unit that can assist 11 charlie 71?
caller: one charlie 60, can orange city send a unit?
operator: copy. i'll check. orange city unit, can you assist?
caller: yes, 11 charlie 71 on scene in the area.
operator: copy that. do you need additional units?
caller: yes, 1651 east university, cross street foothill farms road. no units on scene yet.
operator: copy. we have units en route. any injuries reported?
caller: yes, officer injured. he can't see anything, something in his eye, but he's conscious.
operator: has he been shot?
caller: unknown. there's a round through the passenger side window.
operator: make sure he stays covered. do we know where the shot came from?
caller: unknown. we need additional support.
operator: all units, proceed with caution. perimeter needs to be set up around the house. 1651 east university.
caller: copy. is air 1 available?
operator: already en route. we will notify the district.
caller: town four. we'll set up at saxon and i-4.
operator: is there information on whether shots are coming from the house?
caller: unknown. 11.0.2 central, fish hospital, en route with officer shot.
operator: copy. we'll notify the hospital.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my boyfriend is not moving and he's bleeding from under his armpit.
operator: okay, where are you located?
caller: 5520 beaver crest drive, apartment 10.
operator: you're in lurray, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: is the bleeding still ongoing?
caller: yes, it is.
operator: please take a clean, dry cloth and press down on the wound.
caller: okay.
operator: is there anything else happening? any other symptoms?
caller: he's moaning and throwing up.
operator: alright, is he breathing okay?
caller: yes, he's breathing but it's heavy.
operator: make sure he is on his side to prevent choking on his vomit.
caller: i've done that. what should i do now?
operator: keep him on his side and watch his breathing. we have an ambulance on the way.
caller: okay. his eyes are open but he's not responding.
operator: it's important to keep calm. is there a way for you to let the ambulance in?
caller: i need to go downstairs to open the door for them.
operator: can you prop the door open or get a neighbor's help?
caller: there’s no one else here. let me go prop the door open and run back.
operator: do it quickly and come back to check on him.
caller: i did it. the door is open.
operator: good. now go back to him and check his breathing.
caller: he's still moaning.
operator: has he consumed any alcohol or drugs?
caller: yes, he has been drinking.
operator: alright, that could be a factor. keep checking his breathing. the ambulance should be there soon.
caller: why are they taking so long?
operator: they're on their way. just keep watching his breathing and stay calm.
caller: okay, i will.
operator: is he still breathing? do you see his chest moving?
caller: yes, but his eyes are open and he's not responding.
operator: if he's breathing, that's a good sign. stay calm.
caller: okay, i'm watching him closely.
operator: stay on the line with me until the ambulance arrives.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: you're doing great. just keep talking to him and keep him on his side.
caller: alright, i'm here.
operator: help is almost there. just stay with him.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i haven't got a hospital.
operator: what's the location of your emergency?
caller: at the hospital.
operator: where? what's the address?
caller: is it 400?
caller: 4-6?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. at the hospital, where are you?
caller: 3200.
operator: okay, what's going on there?
caller: someone has a gun.
operator: inside the hospital?
caller: yes.
operator: is it a male or female?
caller: a male.
operator: white or black?
caller: white.
operator: what's he doing with it?
caller: he shot a gun.
operator: he shot a gun in the hospital?
caller: yes, yes.
operator: who did he shoot, do you know?
caller: i don't know. no one, but he shot it off, and i don't know what's going on.
operator: okay, you said he's in the nicu?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, hold on one second, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: can you give me a description of what he's wearing?
caller: he's wearing a hat. he's a heavy-set man with a beard.
operator: okay. and anything else?
caller: i think he's in room 3201.
operator: was he in 3201?
caller: yes, yes.
caller: can you please send someone?
operator: we're on the way. just stay on the phone, okay?
caller: okay. okay.
operator: do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: i do not believe so. we heard the gun go off. we didn't know what was going on. we thought it was an oxygen tank or something.
caller: then we went in there.
operator: you're hiding?
caller: yes, i'm hiding in a room right now, so i don't even know what's going on.
caller: i hear them making an announcement right now. we couldn't figure it out. we all went in the room because we thought it came from there.
caller: we thought it was an oxygen tank. then we saw him sitting there with a gun and he was like, you know, loading it or whatever.
operator: okay, so he was loading the gun?
caller: yeah, he was like doing something like that and then we all left.
operator: do you know, is he there visiting family?
caller: i had been in the room earlier and he wasn't there. he looked like he was sitting in the chair.
operator: okay. what kind of patients are up there in 3201?
caller: it's a neuro icu.
operator: neuro icu? adult?
caller: yeah, adults.
operator: just stay on the phone. we had several officers coming to you guys.
caller: okay.
operator: do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: i do not believe so.
caller: i don't know if i should get up and see.
operator: no, i wouldn't. stay exactly where you're at.
operator: is anybody there with you?
caller: just a patient.
caller: i hear someone yelling.
operator: stay exactly where you're at. did you lock the door?
caller: i have it closed, but i don't know if it's locked.
operator: can you put something in front of the door?
caller: no, there's nothing to put in front of the door.
operator: okay. where are you at?
caller: i'm in 3206, like five rooms down. i hear screaming out there. i don't know what's going on.
operator: do you have a patient with you?
caller: yeah, he's out of it, though. i hear people yelling.
caller: i hear commotion. are you a staff, a nurse?
caller: yeah.
caller: i don't know if i should be going up there. i don't know. should i go?
operator: no, stay exactly where you're at. you're doing good. just let me know when you hear anything, okay?
caller: okay, i hear a commotion. people are running.
operator: okay, just stay on.
caller: okay, i think they need help out there.
operator: no, you need to stay where you're at. you're doing good.
caller: i think someone's coding or something.
operator: stay right where you're at, okay? we have several officers coming there.
caller: okay, i got to go in there.
operator: where's the person with the gun?
caller: i have no idea.
operator: ma'am, you don't want to get in the middle of it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yeah, i just...
operator: do you need medical aid or police assistance?
caller: i just committed a father's worst sin.
operator: okay.
caller: i just shot my daughter in the head and my son in the head.
operator: okay, what is your address?
caller: i had to put them out of their misery.
operator: okay, where are you at, sir?
caller: i'm going to have to shoot myself to get rid of their demons.
operator: okay, sir, are you armed?
caller: i can't hear you.
operator: i need your address, please. sir, what is your address?
caller: can you hear me?
operator: yes.
caller: 1509 5th street southeast.
operator: okay. do you have a weapon? do you have the gun now?
caller: yes, i do.
operator: okay.
caller: it's all because of alcohol and drugs. our family's torn apart.
operator: okay. you mentioned your son has two little boys upstairs asleep and your wife is asleep.
caller: yes, they're asleep.
operator: and you said there are children in the residence?
caller: yes, my son's little boys.
operator: okay, what's your name?
caller: my name is michael.
operator: michael, what's your last name?
caller: okay, michael.
operator: is your son and daughter... are they... okay. can you hear me?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. you said you've been drinking tonight?
caller: no, not me. our kids and our grandkids, the older ones, have been doing the drugs and drinking.
operator: okay.
caller: oh, my god. jesus, for years we've been dealing with this. my wife is suffering with depression and anxiety.
operator: hold on one second, michael, for me. stay on the line. i don't want you to hang up.
operator: okay, michael, what room are you in right now?
caller: i'm sorry, i can't understand you. what room are you in right now, mike?
caller: i'm in the kitchen.
operator: i'm going to have to shoot myself.
operator: no, i'm asking you, michael, if you can put the gun down for me?
caller: i set the gun down.
operator: you've set the gun down?
caller: yes, the gun is down.
operator: okay. what kind of gun do you have?
caller: i can't take this anymore.
operator: michael, i need you to stay calm. what kind of gun do you have?
caller: it's a .22 caliber.
operator: do you have the gun again?
caller: no, it's sitting right here by me.
operator: but it's set down, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: are your grandkids in the residence? are those the two children you were talking about?
caller: yes, they're just little boys. they're like six and seven, sleeping upstairs with my wife.
operator: okay, michael, i don't want you to harm yourself. i want you to stay on the line and talk with me, okay? we can get you some help.
caller: okay, my son is moaning. he has a problem. i need to do it again.
operator: no, michael, we're going to get you some help. you don't need to do that.
caller: okay.
operator: what room is he in?
caller: he's in the living room on the couch and my daughter is upstairs in her bedroom.
operator: do you have a cordless phone, michael?
caller: yes, i'm on a cordless phone.
operator: are you still in the kitchen?
scenario:robbery
caller: yes, i'm in the kitchen.
operator: i want you to stay there and keep talking with me; we're getting help to you.
caller: okay, i need an ambulance here.
operator: okay, stay on the line. the front door is unlocked, correct?
caller: yes, it's unlocked.
operator: michael, i need you to stay calm. we're going to get you some help. i want you to put the gun down and go to the front door where the officers can talk to you, okay?
caller: i am so cold.
operator: michael, stay calm. do you have a jacket you can put on?
caller: yes, i'm putting my jacket on.
operator: let me know when you've put the jacket on and are walking to the front door.
caller: the gun is on the counter.
operator: the gun is on the counter, that's good. are you going to the front door now?
caller: yes, i'm walking to the front door now.
operator: he's walking to the front door now. just keep walking, michael.
caller: i'm shaking like a leaf.
operator: okay, we'll get you warm. just keep going, you’re doing great.
caller: i just want to die, but i can't leave my family alone.
operator: michael, focus on getting to the door. the police are there to help you.
caller: okay, i'm at the front door.
operator: you're at the front door, good. open the door slowly and do what the police say, okay?
caller: i'm opening the door now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please, send the police!
operator: what's the problem there?
caller: he killed my friends!
operator: what's the problem? i need to know.
caller: the police stop! with a gun! with a gun!
caller: please, hurry up! he's killing my girlfriend!
operator: they're on the way, but i need more information. who's doing this?
caller: with guns! they'll break the guns!
operator: who has the guns?
caller: you've got to kill him!
operator: i need you to calm down.
operator: why do you need somebody there?
caller: he's killing my friends.
operator: who's killing your friend?
caller: my chimpanzee!
operator: your chimpanzee is killing your friend?
caller: please, hurry up! he's got a gun!
operator: someone is on the way. where are you?
caller: please, shoot him! the monkey's beating up on somebody!
operator: what is the monkey doing?
caller: he ripped her face off! he's trying to attack me, please, hurry!
operator: i need you to calm down. they're on the way. can you push him away?
caller: please, hurry up!
operator: they're on the way, ma'am. is the monkey still with your friend?
caller: he killed her, please.
operator: are you there with your friend?
caller: he's trying to attack me now.
operator: i need you to calm down so you can help your friend. are you there with your friend?
caller: how fast can you get them here?
operator: they're on the way. if the monkey moves away from your friend, let me know.
caller: i can't. she's dead. he ripped her apart. everything.
operator: no, just breathe, okay? i need you to stay with me until they get there.
caller: please, hurry!
operator: they're on the way. i need you to calm down.
operator: is the monkey still with your friend or is your friend still on the floor?
caller: she's dead. i tried to push him away, but he's still there.
operator: do not get any closer, okay? they're on the way.
operator: if the monkey moves away, let me know, okay?
caller: no, he's still there.
operator: okay. is your friend alive?
caller: no, she's dead. she's not moving.
operator: i need you to stay on the phone with me. they're on the way, okay?
caller: please, hurry. have them shoot him. he's going to attack me.
operator: i need you to stay in your car and lock the windows. help is on the way. stay calm.
caller: he's walking around. he's hurt!
operator: stay in your car. do not get out. the police are on the way.
caller: please have them shoot him!
operator: they will. just stay in your car.
caller: they're here, but he's not dead!
operator: i need you to stay in your car. they know about the situation.
caller: he's coming after me!
operator: stay in your car. the police will handle it.
caller: please hurry!
operator: stay calm. help is there. hang on.
caller: he's still moving. he's still alive!
operator: they will keep shooting until he's no longer a threat. stay with me.
caller: i don't see any officers.
operator: that's fine. just stay in your car. they're handling it.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, 1313 esther drive, boulder city, nevada.
operator: okay, and what phone number are you calling from?
caller: 259-899-7979.
operator: and what's the problem? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: my name is hans walters. i worked for the las vegas metropolitan police department. i just shot and killed my son, max, and my wife, michelle.
operator: okay.
caller: i killed her because she's in such chronic pain from her neck and back, and on more medicines than she's not going to survive.
caller: we were both seeing a therapist and a psychologist in boulder city. his name is jay summers, and i feel terrible for doing it.
operator: okay.
caller: please don't interrupt me. please.
caller: i've also set the house on fire, and if the fire department comes to my house, there's a fire hydrant right in front of my house. i'm going to open fire on them, so they have to wait until the house is burning, and then i'm going to shoot myself, okay?
operator: okay, sir.
caller: don't ask me any questions.
caller: this is real. this is not a joke.
caller: the fire alarms in the background are because i set the garage and the bedroom on fire. my wife's in the bedroom. i shot her in the head. my son, unfortunately, is no more. he was watching oswald, and i shot him in the head, too.
caller: oh, forgive me for my sins. please don't call back. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm up here at mcdonald's, and i had ordered like seven burgers.
caller: i went to my vehicle, and when i came back, they took a burger from me.
caller: i'm calling about mcdonald's, right? they gave me six burgers instead.
caller: they want to talk junk, and they're sitting there at mcdonald's.
operator: okay, which mcdonald's are you at?
caller: the one on overthorpe.
operator: is there a callback number?
caller: yes.
operator: which mcdonald's, sir, are you located at?
caller: on overthorpe, near the liberty expressway.
operator: east oglethorpe near the liberty expressway?
caller: yes, the one near the liberty expressway.
operator: sir, will you be standing behind your vehicle?
caller: yeah, i'll be outside.
operator: what kind of vehicle, sir?
caller: i'm in a black dodge ram.
operator: alright, we'll get somebody out there.
caller: thank you.
operator: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello? my dad and my uncle just got shot.
operator: okay, calm down. two people shot at this time. what happened? tell me exactly what happened.
caller: they came in and then they left. someone tried to catch them. they really shot him.
operator: okay. did you see the person who did it?
caller: no. i didn't see their faces. they had bandanas covering them.
operator: did you see if they were white or black?
caller: i couldn't tell, but we're in a black neighborhood.
operator: okay. which way did they go?
caller: i don't know. my dad is just sitting there, and the local police told me to get on the ground.
operator: all right. the paramedics and the police are on the way. did the suspect leave the scene yet?
caller: oh, my god. yes, they left about an hour ago.
operator: all right. it seems clear. suspects are described as black males wearing bandanas.
operator: did you see if they left in a vehicle?
caller: i don't know. my husband just told me to get on the ground.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. the police are almost there.
operator: the police are now there. you can go ahead and hang up with me now.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a plane has just crashed into the hudson river.
caller: u.s. air, big d.c. 9 or 10 has crashed into the hudson river.
caller: oh, my god, it was a big plane. i heard a big boom just now.
caller: we looked up and the plane came straight over us and it was turning. oh, my god.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: sure as i called you, the plane disappeared out of sight. i guess because of the buildings.
operator: was it a large or small plane?
caller: it looked like an airbus plane, like a big plane.
operator: all right, sir. stay right there, i'm sending everybody, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: wow. now i want operator 2194.
caller: yeah, i'm witnessing an airplane going down. it's on fire on the left side.
operator: where?
caller: it's turning. i don't know where it's going to fall, though.
operator: where are you, sir?
caller: oh, my god. where are you?
operator: where are you?
caller: avenue on 1-99.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 750 south, 650 west, apartment 154.
operator: in provo?
caller: yes.
operator: 750 south, 650 west, unit 154.
caller: yes.
operator: is it at the boulder?
caller: yes.
operator: a phone number for you in case we get disconnected?
caller: 801.
operator: do you need police or paramedics there?
caller: i'm not sure. my friend called and basically told me she was going to kill herself, and i think she probably will.
operator: can you tell me her name?
caller: it's yvette kimber, y-v-e-t-t-e k-i-m-b-e-r.
operator: how long ago did she call you?
caller: just right before i called you.
operator: do you know if she's taken anything?
caller: i don't.
caller: she called me at 8:59.
operator: we're going to get some help over there. do you know if she's alone?
caller: yes, i believe she's alone. i called her daughter, and her daughter's on her way over there, too.
operator: did she tell you how she was planning on doing this?
caller: she said, i wanted to tell you goodbye, and i remember skittles. i call her skittles.
operator: okay, and you actually spoke to her, it was not a text message, correct?
caller: i talked to her.
operator: alright, we have an officer headed that way. did she have any weapons in the house that we need to be aware of?
caller: i don't know. i'm in santaquin; she's in provo.
operator: how old is she?
caller: i think she's around 45. i'm not sure.
operator: has she been depressed recently?
caller: her boyfriend broke up with her today. and she has a long history of depression.
operator: do you know if she's tried to commit suicide in the past?
caller: i've heard that she's tried to overdose before, but i've only met her last year.
operator: what's her phone number?
caller: um, let me look it up.
operator: did you tell her you were going to be calling the police?
caller: no, i didn't have time to. she hung up on me.
operator: alright, like i said, we do have an officer headed that way. do you want them to make contact with you at all or just check her welfare?
caller: i would like somebody to call me back and let me know what's going on.
operator: do you think she'd be upset if the police were to call her or show up?
caller: i don't know because i don't think she'd answer to whitney, her daughter.
operator: alright, thanks for calling. i appreciate it.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: fire.
operator: what's the address?
caller: 750 south, 650 west, parking lot number six.
operator: 750 south, 650 west, parking lot number six?
caller: yes, it's the boulders.
operator: is the phone number you're calling from...
caller: pardon me?
operator: your phone number?
caller: what city?
operator: do you need police or paramedics at the boulders?
caller: uh, you may want to send paramedics just in case.
operator: what's going on?
caller: the fire is spreading.
operator: what's on fire?
caller: the apartment building.
operator: okay. let me dispatch the fire department. hold on. don't hang up.
caller: i won't.
caller: it's on the outside now. the windows are exploding.
operator: the paramedics are on the way. are you outside the apartment right now?
caller: no, but i need to go to my car. you may be better. go across and get those people out of the apartment. we're trying to get everybody outside.
operator: is everybody out of the building?
caller: we're trying to get them out now. we're yelling to get everybody out.
operator: okay. how many apartments are on fire?
caller: right now, one, but it's spreading.
operator: is anybody injured?
caller: not yet, but there's one or two people trapped upstairs.
operator: is someone trapped upstairs?
caller: i see one person trapped upstairs trying to get out the window.
operator: one person's trying to get out of the window?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: we do have the fire department on the way. i'll tell you exactly what to do next. are flames visible?
caller: yes, they're very visible. it's spreading all over the place.
operator: and this is a large apartment building, correct?
caller: it's building 28.
operator: building 28?
caller: yes, building 28, lot 6. it's spreading to the next building.
operator: it's spreading to the next building?
caller: yes, ma'am. it's spreading to the next apartment, across the way from the fire.
operator: we do have several fire units on the way. can you tell me if the person made it out of the window?
caller: yes, i saw the person make it out of the window. there's another one trying to get out.
operator: is anybody stuck in the building right now?
caller: right now, i don't see anyone stuck.
operator: we do have the fire department on the way. what's your name, sir?
caller: <name>
operator: alright, thanks for calling.
caller: thank you.
operator: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please come down here.
operator: what address?
caller: i don't know the address.
operator: you're going to have to give me an address or a street marker.
caller: just stay with me. i don't know the address.
operator: okay. can you tell me anything that's around you? try to think.
caller: we're behind cal-safe.
operator: behind cal-safe? how far behind cal-safe?
caller: i'll be standing outside.
operator: how far behind cal-safe?
scenario:medical
caller: that's the number. 627, is it sunrise park or cherry street or away?
operator: 627, sunrise park.
caller: yes, sunrise park.
operator: listen to me, i'm going to get somebody on the way, but just tell me what happened.
caller: oh, no. they just went in there to get the... it was an accident. he shot them both.
operator: he shot both of them?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. so there are two people who have been shot?
caller: yes.
operator: all right. just stay with me. you're there on sunrise park behind cal-safe. where are they shot?
caller: oh, god. just get down here. i don't know where they got shot. i don't want to move them.
operator: okay, stay with me. i've got the police department on the way, and i'm getting an ambulance on the way. what color is the house or trailer you're at?
caller: it's a trailer.
operator: it's a trailer? okay. are you on love avenue?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. are there several trailers around you?
caller: just hurry and get here.
operator: i've got them on the way. i'm going to talk to you until they get there, so don't hang up. what is your name?
caller: okay.
operator: all right. and you're at 627 sunrise park?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. stay right where you are and i'm going to talk to you until an officer gets there.
caller: hurry. oh, god.
operator: so they went in there to get some papers?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. what happened then?
caller: oh, shit. we shouldn't have gone in.
operator: okay. what happened?
caller: they went in, and he just came in there and shot them both.
operator: who shot them?
caller: matt moore.
operator: where is he?
caller: he just left. he just booked it.
operator: did he leave on foot or in a car?
caller: i don't know. i'm checking right now. oh god, i can't see.
operator: can you see the police?
caller: okay. the police are here now.
operator: good. talk to the officer. the subject involved has left the area, trying to ascertain if it was by vehicle or on foot. are you still there?
caller: they're following me.
operator: are you on foot or driving?
caller: i'm driving.
operator: okay. just talk to me until you get to the residence and then we'll hang up, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: is anybody else hurt?
caller: no, just them two, but i think they're dead.
operator: okay. and you said it was matthew moore?
caller: yes.
operator: did you see him shoot them?
caller: yes, i did.
operator: you need to tell the officers all this when they talk to you. do you have any idea where he may have gone?
caller: no, i do not.
operator: all right. can you tell me if he left on foot or in a vehicle?
caller: it was in a vehicle.
operator: do you know what kind of vehicle?
caller: a black pontiac.
operator: was he by himself?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. i'm going to hang up with you now, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: they're pulling this road over here. there's piles and piles of stuff everywhere.
operator: can you please specify the nature of the problem?
caller: it's all over the road. it's a huge mess.
operator: do you see any vehicles or people causing this?
caller: there's a truck putting more stuff down. it's out of control.
operator: can you provide a location?
caller: end of the road, near the construction site.
operator: alright, can you stay on the line?
caller: i’m trying to clear it but i need assistance.
operator: are you in any immediate danger?
caller: no, it’s just a big mess.
operator: help is on the way. please stay clear of the area until they arrive.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's an emergency at northwest 6th avenue and 8th street.
operator: 6th avenue and 8th street?
caller: yes, 6th avenue and 8th street.
operator: okay, ma'am, what is the problem?
caller: a white female passenger passed out on one of our vehicles, which is a metro bus number 212.
operator: and this is a female that fainted?
caller: yes.
operator: are you in contact with her?
caller: no, i have to operate on the other line, but someone else is in contact with her.
operator: okay, is she still unconscious?
caller: yes.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: all right, ma'am, i'm going to ask some questions. i do have emergency responders on the way. can you ask them if she is breathing normally?
caller: hold on a second. no, she's not breathing normally, and there's fluid coming out of her mouth.
operator: okay, i need you to turn her to her side and clean out her nose and mouth.
caller: hold on a minute. okay, she's not moving, she's just limp.
operator: that's okay. lay her flat on her back with nothing under her head. clean out her nose and mouth. now, place one hand on her forehead, the other under her neck, and tilt her head back.
caller: okay, hold on. they did it.
operator: great. now, place your ear next to her mouth. can you feel or hear any breathing?
caller: hold on. they say she's gasping for air.
operator: okay, so she's not breathing correctly, is that right?
caller: yes.
operator: if her breath is not steady or normal, i want you to tilt her head back some more.
caller: hold on a second. they said she's turning colors and gasping every so often.
operator: okay, i'm going to guide you through how to perform chest compressions. make sure she's flat on her back on the ground. place the heel of one hand on her breastbone, right between her nipples. place your other hand on top of that hand, and push down hard and fast, about 2 inches deep.
caller: okay. hello?
operator: yes, i'm right here.
caller: my rescue team just arrived.
operator: okay, thank you for your help, ma'am. emergency responders will take over now.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: there's somebody, there's a guy, and i'm home alone, and he's banging on my door. please, i need somebody here, quick.
operator: okay, i need your address.
caller: west 79th street.
operator: is that a house or an apartment?
caller: a house.
operator: what's your phone number?
caller: [phone number]
operator: tell me exactly what happened.
caller: there's a guy, and i'm home alone. he's talking on my door, please. i need somebody here, quick.
operator: did he open the door?
caller: he opened the door. he opened the...
operator: you opened your front door?
caller: he opened the door.
operator: what's your name?
caller: cynthia.
operator: are you expecting anyone?
caller: no, no, no. i need someone quick.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. don't hang up. are you in a room or anywhere by yourself?
caller: no.
operator: can you get into a room somewhere that you can lock yourself in?
caller: no, i can't.
operator: why can't you?
caller: he's in the house. he's looking at me, please.
operator: what do you mean he's looking at you?
caller: he's not looking at me. i need someone here.
operator: how old are you?
caller: i'm 12.
operator: you're 12 and you're home alone?
caller: i need a police officer here quick.
operator: okay, listen. i'm asking you these questions so i can send help out to you. can you get into your room or lock yourself in your room or something?
caller: okay, i'm in the room.
operator: okay, did you lock yourself in the room?
caller: yes.
operator: and you're not expecting anyone?
caller: no.
operator: you said he opened your front door?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, give me one second. and you told me your name again?
caller: cynthia.
operator: was this guy going through the front door or the back door?
caller: the front door.
operator: did you see him? did you see if he was white, black, or what clothes he was wearing?
caller: he's white, he's wearing a green shirt and white pants.
operator: give me one second. was he driving a car?
caller: yes, a regular four-door car.
operator: was it an suv or anything?
caller: it was a small car.
operator: okay, hold on a second. can you see if you can find out more details on the car?
caller: no, i can't.
operator: alright, stay in the room, keep the door locked, and stay on the line with me. are your parents around?
caller: my dad is away.
operator: what kind of car does your dad drive?
caller: a dodge.
operator: what color?
caller: gray.
operator: alright, stay on the phone with me. are you still in the room?
caller: yes.
operator: are you hiding?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, stay as quiet as you can. the police should be getting there soon.
caller: okay.
operator: can you see the intruder?
caller: he's trying to open my room door.
operator: okay, stay calm. do you still hear him inside the house?
caller: yes, i hear him opening doors.
operator: okay, just stay quiet and stay on the phone with me, alright?
caller: i think he's trying to find something.
operator: alright, stay with me. help is on the way. are you okay?
caller: i think he's trying the back door.
operator: do you hear him still inside the house?
caller: yes, he's trying to get out.
operator: alright, stay in your room until i tell you it's safe to come out.
operator: the police should be arriving soon. stay on the phone with me.
caller: okay.
operator: is he still inside?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, help is almost there. stay calm.
caller: i think i hear the police.
operator: alright, keep quiet and stay hidden until it's safe. the police will find you.
caller: okay.
operator: is the intruder still inside the house?
caller: i think he heard the police and ran out.
operator: okay, stay where you are. the police will come to you.
caller: the police are here. i hear them.
operator: alright, stay on the phone with me until they reach you, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: just stay on the line until you're safe.
caller: i think they're telling him to put his hands up.
operator: good, stay quiet.
caller: i can't see anything. i'm in the closet.
operator: stay in the closet until they tell you it's safe.
caller: okay.
operator: you're doing great. stay calm.
caller: the police are here. they have dogs and everything.
operator: okay, do you still hear the intruder?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: stay on the line until an officer reaches you, okay?
caller: they're telling him to put his hands up.
operator: just stay where you are.
caller: okay.
caller: i can't see anything. i'm still in the closet.
operator: stay there until they make contact with you.
caller: okay.
caller: the police are inside the house now.
operator: good. stay there until they come to you.
caller: they're calling out for me.
operator: okay, you can call out to them now.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my uncle javis is slitting his neck and his girlfriend's neck, and i have kids here.
operator: i have kids here. okay. what's going on there?
caller: my uncle javis is slitting his neck in front of my kids.
operator: okay. what address are you at?
caller: 818 east main.
operator: is that in lowell?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. all right. stay on the line with me, and let me get the ambulance on the line. you need to calm down for your children's sake.
caller: okay.
operator: what's going on, bud? hello? what's going on?
caller: my uncle jeff is slitting his neck in front of my kids and slitting his ex-girlfriend’s neck. come on! get in, go!
operator: i can't hear you. stay on the phone with me.
caller: i am. i am.
operator: are your kids out of the house?
caller: i can't. it's too cold and i have a newborn.
operator: you can't send them to the neighbors or something?
caller: no, i don't have any friends around here.
operator: okay. just a minute. please hurry.
caller: yep, they're on the way. hang on. let me call.
operator: what's going on now?
caller: he's still trying to slit. he's bleeding badly and he's still trying to slit his ex-girlfriend's neck.
operator: okay. all right. hang on just a minute. where's the knife now?
caller: we're going to be going soon, okay, honey? i promise. we can't. we have nowhere to go. we don't have a car.
operator: is anybody able to get the knife away from him?
caller: no.
operator: okay. all right, i don't want anybody else hurt. how many people are hurt at this point?
caller: i'm sure there's two.
operator: what is your first name?
caller: megan.
operator: megan, you need to tell me what's going on so i can let my officers know.
caller: okay. my uncle jeff came over here—
operator: right. now, tell me what's going on right now.
caller: my uncle jeff is standing in front of jana.
operator: in the living room?
caller: yes, and jana is scared. she can't move. troy can't move.
operator: is he holding them there so they can't get out? are they able to get out of the house?
caller: no, they're not able to. none of us can.
operator: okay. hold on.
caller: i know you're hungry, but i can't get to your mother.
operator: who is that?
caller: my niece mackenzie.
scenario:traffic
operator: she needs to get away.
caller: i can't put her anywhere. i have no place to put her. that's why i need you guys.
operator: well, we're on the way, all right, megan? just stay with me. what's he doing now?
caller: he's attacking jana right now.
operator: okay, all right. just tell me what's going on, but i don't want anybody else hurt.
caller: he's slitting her. her neck is bleeding really badly.
operator: he's attacking her again with the knife?
caller: yes.
operator: go over there and sit, both of you. now, get over there, now. i don't want you to see this.
caller: troy is just sitting there trying to get him to stop.
operator: is he stabbing her? what's going on?
caller: either he's playing with his cuts or he's showing his cuts or something. i can't see.
operator: you can't see him right now?
caller: well, i can see him, but his back's turned, so i don't know what he's doing.
operator: okay.
caller: no, don't come out here like that. i got kids.
operator: who are you talking to?
caller: my uncle jeff.
operator: has he still got the knife?
caller: no.
operator: he put it down?
caller: yes. wait, he's got a bigger knife!
operator: oh, mackenzie. sit down, mackenzie.
caller: hurry up! they're on the way.
operator: are you able to get the kids out the sliders?
caller: i can see the cops. please hurry.
operator: are you able to get the children out to the officer, megan?
caller: i can't get anybody out. they don't have shoes on. they don't have clothes on.
operator: are you able to hand them out to the officer?
caller: hurry up!
operator: what's going on? megan, what's going on?
caller: he's slitting his neck, killing himself.
operator: he's slitting his own neck?
caller: yes.
operator: has any of the officers come in yet?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: keep me updated as to what's going on, all right?
caller: get away from there, you guys. go!
operator: he's laying down?
caller: yes, he's in the living room.
operator: okay, who else is in there with him? dana and troy are still in there? are the kids still in the kitchen with you?
caller: yes. don't look, you guys. please don't look.
operator: okay.
caller: does anybody approach?
operator: megan?
caller: what?
operator: i understand this is upsetting, but i need you to keep your...
caller: he's down. you can go.
operator: are the officers in?
caller: yes, one of the county sheriffs.
operator: one officer's in?
caller: yes. honey, come on, come on.
operator: are you able to get out?
caller: we're still not, because i don't have any shoes or clothes for the kids.
operator: are you able to go to a neighbor?
caller: oh my god, jana. oh my god.
operator: megan?
caller: what?
operator: let me know what's going on right now.
caller: is there another officer in there?
operator: i believe so. are you outside or inside?
caller: we're still inside because i can't get the kids out in this weather.
operator: okay. your uncle jeff is down. is he?
caller: i don't know if he's dead or what.
operator: okay. do they have him handcuffed? can you see?
caller: yes, they have troy and jana lying on the ground right now.
operator: all right. are all the officers there with you?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. are you still inside or outside?
caller: we're still inside the house.
operator: all right. do any of the kids need any medical assistance or are you all set?
caller: we're all set.
operator: okay. the officers have him handcuffed, right?
caller: he's laying on the ground with his head on the couch. i can't tell if he's dead or not. they can't tell if he's handcuffed.
operator: i just want to make sure the situation is safe before we disconnect.
caller: okay.
operator: stay on the line with me a minute. i just want to make sure my officers are safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i met roosevelt in 59. the cafe races, there's been a shooting. somebody came in and shot a bunch of people. i'm hiding in the bathroom.
operator: hold on, sir. how many people?
caller: we need help right away.
operator: okay, just a second. did you see the person that did it?
caller: no, i did not. i was in the back.
operator: okay. well, they didn't get me. and, sir, i need to know what's the name of the place?
caller: it's called the cafe racer.
operator: i'm sorry, radio. you talked, cafe what?
caller: cafe racer. he's saying there's a shooting that just occurred in there. sir, and several people were shot?
caller: that's correct.
operator: do we have an address?
caller: it's roosevelt and northeast 59th.
operator: it's all we've gotten. cafe racer?
caller: yeah.
operator: north east 50th, you said?
caller: it's 59 in roosevelt. five, nine.
operator: yes, there's people down all over the place out there. okay. and you didn't see the shooter, sir, or you did?
caller: no, no, i did not.
operator: okay.
caller: i just heard the shots.
operator: you just heard the shots?
caller: i can see people laying on the floor.
operator: okay. just a minute. i need you to stay on the phone with me, please.
caller: okay.
operator: how many minutes ago did you hear the shots?
caller: two, three minutes.
operator: talks. did he actually see the people down? he sees the people down. you're not in the place, correct?
caller: i hear them seeing himself. i want to go out and talk. yes. people are shot.
operator: okay. all right, just a minute. the guy is gone, so i'm going to go back out there.
caller: what do you mean the guy is gone?
operator: how do you know if you didn't... look, look. people are bleeding all over... sir, i'm not the one driving out there, so please answer my questions. this is serious, okay?
caller: how do you know he's gone if you didn't see him?
caller: because i'm out... larry, the shooter's gone, right?
caller: yeah, shooter is gone.
operator: where's that? did he see him, please? anybody see him?
caller: the guy. black shirt, six feet tall.
operator: black shirt, six feet tall. white guy, black guy, what is he?
caller: white man.
operator: white guy, how old maybe?
caller: how old, buddy? forties.
operator: forties. anybody know where he went? did you see which way? north-south?
caller: we need a damn ambulance right away.
operator: sir, we're sending everything we can. i need this information for the officers to find this guy, please. okay? which way did this guy go? did your friend see?
caller: nobody knows?
operator: does anybody know what kind of pants he had on?
caller: i think dark clothes.
operator: dark pants. dark pants?
caller: it's a white shirt now, or?
operator: black shirt. larry, they want the description of this guy. can i talk to larry? i'm not trying to talk to this woman.
caller: he wants the description of the guy.
operator: hello. hi, i need a better description. white guy 40, six foot. what color shirt? we have people alive, barely alive here. do you have people coming?
caller: yes, sir. we have a lot of people coming.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 455 east 300 south.
operator: can you repeat the address for verification?
caller: 455 east 300 south, salem.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: okay, that's what i'm showing.
operator: what's the problem? tell me exactly what's happened.
caller: my wife was shot.
operator: okay, who was shot?
caller: my wife.
operator: was it self-inflicted?
caller: no, i shot her.
operator: do you still have the weapon?
caller: yes, i do.
operator: is she awake?
caller: no, she's dead.
operator: what is your name?
caller: tracy.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: scott.
operator: where is the gun right now?
caller: in my hand.
operator: can you put it down?
caller: i don't know yet.
operator: what kind of gun is it?
caller: it's a .45.
operator: is it a handgun?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, tracy, can you put that down for me?
caller: let me get some help to you.
operator: is there anyone else at the house with you?
caller: no.
operator: did you guys get in a fight or what happened?
caller: we've been fighting for the last two weeks.
operator: okay, where did you shoot her?
caller: in the bedroom. she got off the phone with her mother complaining about me.
operator: tracy, what part of her body did you shoot?
caller: i don't remember.
operator: can you go in and see if she's conscious?
caller: she was going to take a picture of me and it just went off.
operator: okay, tracy, can i have you go in there and see if she's conscious, see if we can help her, okay? can you do that for me?
caller: no, she's dead. she's not moving.
operator: can you go over there by her?
caller: no.
operator: how old is she?
caller: 38.
operator: are you sure she's beyond any help?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, okay, stay on the phone with me for a second. what's your phone number?
caller: tell them not to come in, i have to make a phone call.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're in here.
operator: 999, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: yes, we're at macy's in the town center. we think we have a shooter in the store.
operator: okay, do you know if anybody's injured?
caller: we don't know. all we hear are shots and people are screaming and running.
operator: is it on the upper level or lower level?
caller: upper level. i don't know where the shots are coming from.
operator: okay, hold on. we're getting help started.
caller: right.
operator: we've got help on the way, okay?
caller: i know. we've got him on the way. thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: hi. i'm at the town center, there's been a shooting.
operator: okay. i need you to get to a safe location. we have help on the way, okay?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: this is a shooting. we're at the town center, at macy's upstairs, by the fragrance section.
operator: who is shot?
caller: i don't know. i'm hiding underneath a register.
operator: my partner is dispatching help while we’re talking. whereabouts in macy's do you think the shooter is?
caller: um, it's got to be upstairs around the food court. all the alarms are going off.
caller: grace, where are you? hey!
operator: hold on just a moment.
caller: greene!
operator: sir? did you actually see this or are you just hearing this?
caller: no, no. we just heard it. there were like 15-20 gunshots right outside the entrance to macy's upstairs.
operator: okay, i'm going to disconnect with you as they're already being dispatched. they're on the way.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: clackamas town center, frederick's of hollywood. there's a fire in the mall.
operator: okay, they're on their way. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm in the back of macy's. there’s a shooting.
operator: did you see the shooter?
caller: no, we’re in the store. it's either inside or right outside macy's.
operator: okay, we're getting people there as quickly as we can. get yourself to a safe spot.
caller: all right, thanks.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, there's a shooting at the town center.
operator: did you actually witness the suspect or do you know where they are?
caller: no, i don't. i'm inside jamba juice.
operator: okay, i'm going to disconnect with you. they've already got the call.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, are you reporting a shooting at the town center?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: okay, are you involved or do you see where the person is?
caller: i'm in bath & body works right now.
operator: do you see where the shooter is?
caller: no.
operator: okay, i'm going to disconnect with you. they've already got the call.
operator: 9-9-9, are you calling about the shooting at the town center?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know where the shooter is?
caller: they're over by the food court.
operator: top floor or bottom floor?
caller: i don't know. we're just hearing shots.
operator: okay, find somewhere safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, we have a report of a shooting at clackamas town center.
operator: where at?
caller: it's in nordstrom right now. someone is walking around with a gun.
operator: okay, how many people with a gun?
caller: as far as i can see, one.
operator: how many people has he shot?
caller: i don't know right now. i'm in the store still and can just barely see him.
operator: is there any description of him?
caller: i can't see right now.
operator: what kind of gun does he have? handgun or rifle?
caller: yes, it's a rifle.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: help!
operator: new york county 999.
caller: we need help. my husband just shot my son.
scenario:medical
operator: your husband shot your son?
caller: please.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, a gentleman was just talking to you about someone that's broken into my house and he can't find his brother.
operator: someone broke into your house and now you can't find his brother?
caller: yes, this is...
operator: okay, do you want to do a missing person report or...?
caller: i don't know. it's his brother. i don't know who this gentleman is. i heard the door banging and next thing i know he's in my house. please hurry.
operator: so the person is in your house. do you know them?
caller: no, i don't know them.
operator: so you just heard someone, your neighbor, it's your neighbor, right?
caller: no, i've never seen them. there was a u-haul truck.
operator: so you let him inside your house, and he requested that you call the police?
caller: he called on my house phone, supposedly, saying that someone told him to meet him here with money for his brother.
operator: and where are you now?
caller: outside.
operator: and he's in the u-haul truck?
caller: yes, he's very agitated, says he's worried about his brother.
operator: is he a white male or black male?
caller: he's black with a white female.
operator: and what is your name?
caller: um, sorry, my name is...
operator: so he just came in the house to use the phone. did he tell you anything else?
caller: um, someone has broken into my house. the door is broken.
operator: so somebody broke into your house as well?
caller: yes, i was asleep in the bedroom and heard a loud banging, and the next thing i know, he was in my house.
operator: so the subject broke into your house?
caller: yes, he says he was with someone else, so please hurry.
operator: and you're still outside?
caller: yes.
operator: alright, give me one second, okay? hold on, okay?
caller: sorry.
caller: hello?
operator: ma'am?
caller: they've left. i knew it was him that broke into my house. they've left.
operator: okay, did you see what he had on?
caller: yes, a yellow shirt and black and green shorts.
operator: did he take anything?
caller: i don't know. i'm sorry. he's gone. i knew it was him that broke in. they had a u-haul. i think they were stealing from my house. i don't know what he's done with my phone.
operator: you don't see your phone?
caller: no, i don't know if he really called you or not. that's why i got my cell phone and called. he wanted my cell phone.
operator: did you see which way they went?
caller: we live on a little cul-de-sac at the end. please hurry.
operator: yes, ma'am. officers are en route. stay on the phone with me, okay?
caller: i'm sorry about this. i'm disabled.
operator: it's going to be all right. and you don't see your phone?
caller: no.
operator: and you said they were in the u-haul truck, correct?
caller: yes. the female is white.
operator: the female is white?
caller: yes.
operator: and this just happened a few minutes ago?
caller: yes, just a few minutes ago.
operator: it's going to be all right, ma'am. did he say he wasn't going to hurt you?
caller: yes, but he didn't know where his brother was. someone told him to bring $100 to get his brother and he didn't want to get in any trouble.
operator: okay, did he appear to be a young male or older male?
caller: young male.
operator: were you upstairs or in your room?
caller: i was in my bedroom with the door locked. i had gone back to sleep.
operator: so you were in your room and then he came in and entered your room, correct?
caller: i kept hearing banging in the house. i knew my husband wasn't home. next thing i know, he was in my house, asking for his brother.
operator: okay, and he said he didn't want to get in trouble?
caller: no, i don't know if he's got a record or something, but when i saw the u-haul, i knew their intentions, especially since i broke down two doors.
operator: it's going to be all right, ma'am. just hold on.
caller: he asked me for cash, and i gave him about $5. he said he was calling the police, but i don't know if he really called you, so i called with my cell phone.
operator: we have k-9 units en route.
caller: i'm sorry about this. i don't know why they would have come here.
operator: they probably thought no one was home.
caller: i didn't hear the banging for a while.
operator: is it like a one-way-in, one-way-out neighborhood?
caller: yes, you turn in and can't get out unless you go back the same way.
operator: okay, is it a big u-haul truck?
caller: it's a decent size, probably their smallest big truck. she was blonde and tubby, he was thin.
operator: so he was thin with a yellow shirt and black hair?
caller: yes, and she was white with short blonde hair.
operator: it's going to be all right, ma'am.
caller: i don't know if i should stay here with my dog or go somewhere else.
operator: just don't touch anything. the police will handle it.
caller: i'm so scared.
operator: it's going to be all right. can you hold on for two seconds?
operator: communications staff. hey joy, do we have an eta for the units?
operator: i'm not sure, let me check.
operator: ma'am, do you need to contact your husband?
caller: he's in amsterdam.
operator: do you have a neighbor or anyone you can call?
caller: i was going to call my dad. i was trying to see if my neighbor was home. he did take something out of my house, besides the phones, i'm not sure what else.
operator: the police are arriving. do you see them?
caller: yes, i see them.
operator: okay, ma'am. i'm going to let you go as soon as i hear the officer.
caller: thank you so much for staying on the line.
operator: no problem, ma'am. all right, take care.
caller: bye-bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: no, i don't know what emergency do you need...
operator: do you need the police, the fire department, or an ambulance, sir?
caller: yes, please, please.
operator: what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i... please, please, yes, i need help.
operator: for what? why do you need help?
caller: two persons... robber, my apartment.
operator: okay, are they there now?
caller: please, yes.
operator: sir, take a deep breath. answer the questions. are they there now?
caller: yes.
operator: what is going on there? what happened?
caller: pardon me, my english is not good. two robbers.
operator: did they hurt you?
caller: pardon me?
operator: are you hurt?
caller: one lady and two robbers, broken my door.
operator: are you hurt?
caller: yes, yeah.
operator: you need an ambulance?
caller: yeah, i'm, yeah.
operator: do you need a hospital?
caller: maybe, i don't know.
operator: okay, what injuries do you have?
caller: sorry, my english is not good. i am sorry.
operator: it's hard for me to help you if i can't understand what you're saying. are you alone?
caller: yes.
operator: you are alone?
caller: yes, i live alone.
operator: what language do you speak?
caller: the language in polish.
operator: okay, what is the ring number to get into your place? how do we buzz in?
caller: 14 or 2.
operator: is that the buzzer number to get into the building?
caller: i don't understand.
operator: how do we buzz in? the ringer number, how do police get into the building downstairs if it's locked?
caller: 133 is the ring number.
operator: thank you. how did they get in? did they break the door?
caller: it's broken, my door.
operator: how come you didn't get your door fixed?
caller: i don't understand.
operator: sir, don't hang up. i'll stay with you until the police arrive.
caller: yes.
operator: are police there? can you see them?
caller: yes, i see the police. they are downstairs.
operator: let me know when the police are in the building.
caller: yes, okay, the police is called a minute. can i speak with them?
operator: no, wait until they are with you. let me know when they are in your apartment.
operator: hello? are police there?
caller: yes, i see the police coming up.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: any kind of sheriff's going to help you?
operator: yes, please. what is your emergency?
caller: i've been shot.
operator: you've been shot? what's your location?
caller: 1040 holly lane.
operator: did you say 1040 holly lane?
caller: yes, he's come over here and shot four people. please hurry.
operator: how many people are injured?
caller: four. there's four people. oh, my god!
operator: ma'am? ma'am, are you there?
operator: is it holly lane or holly road?
caller: 1040 holly lane.
operator: okay, i'm sending help immediately.
operator: hi, can you send somebody near 1040 holly lane? we received a call from a lady stating she's been shot along with four other people. she started screaming and we lost contact.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, an airplane just went down.
operator: do you have a location or an intersection?
caller: i think the townhouse is across from p.w. perry and flyar hill, right off of schoffer school road.
operator: can you confirm the intersection?
caller: it's mallory and schoffer school road.
operator: okay, hold on.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: was it a big plane or a small plane?
caller: it didn't look like a real big plane. medium size.
operator: what's your name?
caller: we could hear the engine noise, my husband and i were in the living room, and we saw it coming down over the trees.
operator: did the plane explode?
caller: we didn't see an explosion, but there's a parachute type of thing in the tree, orange and white striped.
operator: do you see any smoke or fire?
caller: no smoke or fire, but we see the parachute thing in the tree.
operator: okay. we're sending help out there. if you have any more information, call us back.
caller: okay, sure. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hello, a small aircraft just came down across the street from the nursery here on schoffer school road and flower hill.
operator: is it near terry laurel lane?
caller: just past terry laurel. turn left on mallory place.
operator: and your name?
caller: it's mike. hurry up.
operator: sir, we're on the way. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: a plane crashed on mallory and schoffer school road.
operator: yes, we are on the way there.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, an airplane, i think, crashed. a couple of people may have been involved.
operator: do you see any smoke or fire?
caller: the fuel is leaking on the road.
operator: is there any smoke or fire?
caller: no smoke, no fire. the operator seems okay.
operator: we're on the way there.
caller: all right. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i have a friend who's been drinking. he's now loading several weapons and about to go to his girlfriend's house. he is armed and dangerous.
operator: what kind of weapons does he have?
caller: he's got a pistol, a shotgun, and a rifle i know of.
operator: where's he going?
caller: i don't know the address he's going to; i've only met her once.
operator: what's his name?
caller: his name is chancy smith.
operator: okay, and just to confirm, does he have any weapons on him right now?
caller: he had them in his hand when i walked out the door. i could hear him loading them.
operator: what kind of guns again? is he in the house right now?
caller: yes, he's in the house right now. he's got a pistol, a shotgun, and at least two or three rifles.
operator: who's he planning to shoot?
caller: his girlfriend. he's planning on going to her house soon.
operator: is his girlfriend there with him?
caller: no, she's not there with him.
operator: where does she live?
caller: i do not know. i've only met her once.
operator: okay, you said he's in the house right now?
caller: yes, i'm at the end of the road, waiting to see if he's leaving.
operator: has he done this before?
caller: not that i know of. i've known him for a long time.
operator: is he having trouble with his girlfriend or just been drinking a lot?
caller: he's having trouble with her and has been drinking a lot.
operator: anybody else in the house besides him?
caller: no, just him.
operator: what is he wearing?
caller: he's wearing a grey t-shirt and black workout pants with an orange stripe down the side.
operator: is he white, black, or hispanic?
caller: he's white.
operator: okay, i'm going to stay on the line with you until my officers get there. you said he's still inside?
caller: yes, he's still inside. i haven't seen him leave yet.
operator: what does he drive?
caller: he drives a silver extended cab, four-wheel drive toyota tacoma.
operator: you said he has all those guns with him, correct?
caller: yes. he's still inside. i hope they get here before he tries to leave.
caller: he's on the move.
operator: okay, is he getting in the truck?
caller: yes, he's in the truck. he's headed towards nazareth church road.
operator: is he going in the silver toyota tacoma?
caller: yes, the silver extended cab tacoma with blacked out windows. he probably has his pistol in the cab with him.
operator: which way is he going? are you following him?
caller: he took a right off the road. he's headed towards nazareth church road.
operator: is he on nazareth or on cannon trail?
caller: he's on cannon trail headed towards nazareth. i'm trying to catch up with him.
operator: so you're behind him?
caller: yes.
operator: where does his girlfriend live?
caller: i don't know. he's out of sight now. i'm trying to catch up. he's taken a left on nazareth church road.
operator: is that a left on nazareth towards longpond?
caller: yes. a cop car just came around the corner and passed him.
operator: okay, did the officer turn around?
caller: i don't know. the officer was out of sight.
operator: are you still behind him?
caller: yes, we're passing longpond going towards crossbury.
operator: can you still see him?
caller: yes, i think he stopped. i'm three cars behind him.
operator: are you still following him?
caller: yes.
operator: you said he's in the silver tacoma, correct?
caller: yes, silver tacoma with black windows.
scenario:medical
operator: all right, let me know if you see anything else.
caller: he just entered a house with a weapon.
operator: what's the address of the house?
caller: i don't know. i don't want to get too close. it's 149 farm chase road.
operator: do you know if anybody's in that residence?
caller: i think his girlfriend is. there's a car in the garage.
operator: what kind of car is it?
caller: it's a mustang in the garage.
operator: i hear the sirens. are you still outside?
caller: yes, i'm down the road, about three houses away.
operator: have you heard or seen anything since he went inside?
caller: no, nothing yet. i don't know if he went in through the garage. the door might have already been open.
operator: okay, i see a lexington county unit up the road.
caller: he's turning around and went the other way.
operator: okay, he might be waiting for backup. i see another car coming in.
caller: they're just pulling in. that's the house right there, the white one.
operator: okay, sir, i'm going to let you go talk to them, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my brother is having a breakdown in open.
operator: okay, is anybody injured?
caller: my brother, yes.
operator: what kind of breakdown is he having?
caller: um, uh, he's acting nice.
operator: okay, how old is he?
caller: 21.
operator: has he done anything harmful?
caller: no, not yet.
operator: does he have any weapons?
caller: i don't know, seriously.
operator: i'm sending you help, but tell me more. what's your brother's name?
caller: kyle miller.
operator: okay, where is he right now?
caller: he's downstairs right now.
operator: so what made you call? what did he do?
caller: i just woke up to my mom screaming because my brother has a knife, and he's trying to cut himself and stuff.
operator: okay, hang on the phone with me. don't go anywhere.
caller: yeah, probably.
operator: so kyle still has the knife?
caller: i'm not sure right now. i think so.
operator: what kind of knife is it?
caller: it's just a... just a kitchen knife.
operator: like a pocket knife?
caller: yeah, a pocket knife.
operator: does he have access to any other weapons that you know of?
caller: no, i don't think so.
operator: who's screaming?
caller: it's my mom.
operator: has anybody been injured yet? has kyle hurt anybody else?
caller: he hurt himself.
operator: where did he cut himself?
caller: do you know what part? he has a gun. it's a bb gun, but it's a...
operator: okay. so what part of the house is he in?
caller: i think he's out in the garage or out in the front yard now.
operator: does anybody know where exactly he is?
caller: my mom doesn't know. i'm going to go look for him right now, but...
operator: okay. i don't want you to put yourself in danger, but we have people coming to help. they're going to need to know where he is, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: if you can sort of peek out the door or something, is there a safe way for you to look out?
operator: hey, in the meantime, can i get your name real quick?
caller: alex miller.
operator: okay, so what is kyle wearing today?
caller: a white shirt.
operator: a white shirt and what else? shorts or jeans?
caller: basketball shorts.
operator: alright. what does he look like? is he tall, short, thin, heavy?
caller: he's taller, medium build.
operator: okay, has he done anything else you haven't mentioned?
caller: no, not really.
operator: do you know where he is now?
caller: he's in the front yard right now, talking to my mom and the neighbor.
operator: does he still have the bb gun?
caller: yeah, it's actually an airsoft gun. it's a different gun than i thought, but yeah, he's right out front.
operator: is he heading towards aspen street?
caller: yes, he's heading down there now.
operator: does he still have the airsoft gun in his hand?
caller: no, he put it down.
operator: what about the pocket knife? does he still have that?
caller: i'm not sure if he does or not.
operator: so when you said he hurt himself or cut himself earlier, do you know where he cut himself?
caller: the only thing i saw was his arm with the knife.
operator: okay. he doesn't have the gun anymore?
caller: no, but he still has the airsoft gun.
operator: is there any way you can let them know he's holding the airsoft gun?
caller: yes, i will.
operator: okay, listen, the officers are trained in this type of situation. they're not going to go around shooting people, okay? they understand and just want to keep everyone safe.
caller: okay.
operator: can you still see him?
caller: no, he took off down the road towards aspen street.
operator: okay, so he took off running down the road towards aspen street and you can't see him anymore?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, i've got some officers who are nearby. they will make sure kyle is under control and safe. probable follow-up officers will come to talk to you shortly.
caller: okay.
operator: just wait at your house, officers will be there shortly.
caller: okay.
operator: alright, bye-bye.
caller: bye.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, this is kristen pritz. i'm on aspen street. there's an officer that has stopped his car and has a citizen. he's holding him with a gun. i mean, he's got his gun pointed out.
operator: we know.
caller: i just wanted to make sure that you know he needed backup.
operator: yes, we know. thank you.
caller: bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i've been shot. please get an officer to 6701 northwest 7th avenue.
operator: okay, i've got the address. which police department do you belong to?
caller: miami police.
operator: alright, stay with me on the line. where's the person that shot you?
caller: they fled.
operator: he fled?
caller: yes.
operator: what is your name?
caller: i'm joseph.
operator: what's your last name?
caller: joseph is my last name.
operator: what's your unit number?
caller: 33, 43. i'm a headquarters unit. please stay with me on the line.
operator: are you in front of the address?
caller: no, i'm in the back of the church.
operator: okay, i'm sending help your way. are you sure the person that shot you is gone?
caller: yes, they're gone. three black males.
operator: do you remember if they fled on foot or in a car?
caller: they fled on foot. about 5'7, light complexion, wearing black and red.
operator: alright, i have help on the way. just hang in there.
caller: thank you.
operator: fire rescue, this is county. i need fire rescue to respond to one of our off-duty officers that's been shot at 6701 northwest 7 avenue. he is behind the church.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
caller: it's 305-669-7837.
operator: and you're sure the offender has left the area?
caller: yes, they fled on foot.
operator: alright, we'll send them right out. thank you.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: water here.
operator: hello?
caller: hello, i'm floating down the river in my car.
operator: okay, what road were you on?
caller: i came up off of, oh god, off of 42, going up cedar-set road, what is it?
operator: i don't know the name of the road. where were you coming from?
caller: 42, heading south.
operator: out of lebanon?
caller: okay, you were on 42 coming out of lebanon or out of waynesville?
caller: yeah, i came out of waynesville and i made a left-hand turn coming into cedar, i don't know, the water's flowing in there fast.
operator: okay, did you turn onto waynesville road like you were going down to the trailer park?
caller: right, right.
operator: okay, how far down that road did you go?
caller: i'm where it says little miami cedar, the water is coming in here fast to my knees.
operator: are you down by the covered bridge?
caller: i just don't know what.
operator: what color is your car?
caller: gray, silver. a honda.
caller: good grief.
operator: i've got help on the way to you. you said you're in a silver honda, right?
caller: yes.
caller: oh, mercy.
operator: can you swim?
caller: not really. i got a leg that's kind of immobile with the brace on it.
operator: okay. yes, there's a female in that vehicle. she can't swim. she's got a brace on a leg.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, my name is maria. i'm calling because my teacher, mr. haynes, he's throwing things and knocked over the table and screaming at us like he's going crazy.
operator: and where is this occurring?
caller: in selby lane school in redwood city.
operator: in which school?
caller: selby lane.
operator: selby lane school?
caller: yeah.
operator: and you said the teacher is doing this?
caller: yeah, the teacher is going crazy. he's throwing tables.
operator: where are you calling from right now? where are you?
caller: i'm calling from my friend's phone.
operator: and when did this happen?
caller: it's happening right now.
operator: but you're at your friend's house?
caller: no, i'm in school. i'm in the bathroom.
operator: you're in the bathroom at school?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, what room at the school?
caller: room 505.
operator: room 505?
caller: yeah.
operator: and what teacher is it?
caller: it's mr. haynes, h-a-y-n-e-s.
operator: do you know why he's acting like this?
caller: no, he just started calling us names and throwing things.
operator: okay, hold on. let me dispatch the officers. don't hang up and stay where you are, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: okay. what's your name?
caller: maria.
operator: and you're calling from your friend's phone?
caller: yeah, my phone ran out of battery.
operator: that's okay. where's your friend? is she there with you?
caller: no, she's in the classroom.
operator: okay, you're in which bathroom? is there more than one girl's bathroom there?
caller: yeah, it's upstairs in the biggest building. there's one bathroom at the end of the hall.
operator: okay, what i want you to do is stay on the phone with me until we get there. we're on our way now, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: okay, you said room 505, right?
caller: yes.
operator: do you want to try and leave the bathroom?
caller: no, i want to stay here.
operator: okay, then stay where you feel safe. how many kids are in the classroom?
caller: about 20-something students.
operator: do you know if he has any weapons?
caller: i don't know, but i recorded him throwing a table.
operator: okay, hold on just a minute.
caller: hello?
operator: i'm still here. are you okay?
caller: yeah, but i'm scared.
operator: i know you're scared. everything's going to be fine. we're there to help you.
caller: okay.
operator: do you have a dog?
caller: wait, what?
operator: do you have a dog? think happy thoughts.
caller: there are people here; i'm afraid they'll tell him what i'm doing.
operator: tell them to be quiet. you're doing the right thing.
caller: okay.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me. do you feel safe walking out towards the front of the school?
caller: no, i want to stay here.
operator: okay, then stay there. are the other people gone?
caller: just my friend is here.
operator: okay, stay where you're at and keep talking to me.
caller: okay, but my friend needs her phone back. she has to go home soon.
operator: i need you to stay on the phone with me for a few more minutes, okay? tell your friend she needs to wait a little bit.
caller: okay. some people are saying the police are here.
operator: yes, the police are there now. if you want to stay in the bathroom, go ahead. i'll have an officer come to you, okay?
caller: okay, i'll be here.
operator: hold on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we have an emergency here.
operator: what's the hazard?
caller: i just got burned by gasoline, please, hurry up.
operator: i can't hear you clearly. can you speak up?
caller: i'm burnt. all my body was covered in gasoline. please send an ambulance, quickly.
operator: okay, i'm trying to get help to you, but you need to calm down and tell me exactly what's going on.
caller: please get help out here. i am burning and it hurts so much.
operator: what happened to you?
caller: i was near my brother and gasoline spilled on me and i caught fire.
operator: okay, stay with me. can you hang on while i get rescue for you?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, hang on, and please don't hang up, okay?
operator: are you still there?
caller: yes, i'm here.
operator: what address is the patient at?
caller: pearson, yes, and pearson.
operator: what's going on there?
caller: i got burnt by gasoline. i need help right now.
operator: okay, i have help on the way. how old are you?
caller: i'm 17.
operator: and you said you were burned by gasoline?
caller: yes, all my body is covered in gasoline. i need to be rushed to a hospital right now.
operator: okay. where are you burned?
caller: everywhere. all my body, my face is burnt.
operator: your whole body is burned?
caller: yes, i need an ambulance.
operator: they are on the way. i need to get more information for the responders. did you accidentally pour gasoline on yourself?
caller: no, my brother was involved. there was gasoline and i caught on fire.
scenario:robbery
operator: so you did catch on fire?
caller: yes, my whole body caught on fire.
operator: okay. stay with me. what's the nearest intersecting road near you?
caller: pernado street.
operator: what's the exact address you're at?
caller: i'm on pearson street, near pernado.
operator: are you in front of a house?
caller: yes, i'm in front of a house.
operator: can you give me the phone number you're calling from?
caller: yes, it's [caller gives phone number].
operator: okay, i have help on the way. do you want me to stay on the phone with you until they get there?
caller: yes, please.
operator: okay, stay on the line. has anyone there been drinking tonight?
caller: no.
operator: did she just spill the gasoline or did she catch on fire as well?
caller: fire and gasoline maybe.
operator: is she on fire right now?
caller: she doesn't speak a lot of english.
operator: okay, i have help on the way. do you need me to stay on the phone until the paramedics get there?
caller: yes.
operator: they've been on the way since you called, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: if anything changes, call us back. help is on the way.
caller: thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: my girlfriend, she's not breathing!
operator: i don't know. i'm trying to catch up with his ambulance. i can't take her pulse or i'm sorry.
operator: listen, calm down. we're dispatching the ambulance so it can stop and meet you at 26 of 100, all right?
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is thomas. please have the ambulance stop.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in an extended cab, f-150.
operator: what color is your truck?
caller: blue, it's blue.
operator: all right, calm down. all right, what's happening?
caller: my girlfriend has just been shot!
caller: yes, the ambulance stopped up ahead. i just ran up here.
operator: okay. now that the ambulance is there, let them take care of her. talk to me about the suspect.
operator: what kind of vehicle was the suspect in?
caller: it was a red ranger, like an old beat-up red ranger.
operator: and you said this occurred further down on 26?
caller: yes, down on 26. we were on our way to gainesville.
caller: she just took a deep breath. oh, my god.
operator: okay. and the ambulance is checking her out now, right?
caller: yes.
operator: good. now, do you have any idea who the suspect is?
caller: no, i've never seen him before in my life.
operator: did they leave right after that?
caller: yes, they shot her. i put my truck in reverse. i gave him my wallet, he grabbed her purse, she tried grabbing him, and then he shot her. i put my truck in reverse and just took off. i'm sorry, i had to go.
operator: okay, so he did take your wallet. did he get her purse too?
caller: he got her purse, yes.
operator: can you tell me what he looked like?
operator: calm down. can you describe him?
caller: yeah, he was black. he was wearing a black shirt and a gray hoodie.
operator: hang on just a second.
caller: yes, sir.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: it's braybrook, that's b-r-a-y, b-r-o-o-k-e, place. fayetteville, north carolina, 28314.
operator: okay, and just repeat that address for me for verification, please.
caller: it's braybrook place, b-r-a-y, b-r-o-o-k-e, place, fayetteville, north carolina, 28314.
operator: okay, what's your name?
operator: okay, ma'am. tell me what's going on.
caller: i guess there's a fight that's broken out, and a lady came running outside saying that some man is in there hitting everyone, going crazy.
operator: okay, is that where it's happening?
caller: yes. there's been screaming and everything. she came out of her house wanting help. she ran out of the house.
caller: that’s her son. she said it's her nephew hitting the mother. she said she got hit. are you guys sending someone?
operator: we're going to get someone out there.
caller: okay, thank you so much.
operator: just stay on the line with me for a moment.
operator: is that her son?
caller: yes, there's just the lady and her son, and then i guess she said it's her nephew that went crazy and he's hitting his mother. another lady got hit that ran outside. she just came back and asked if the police were on their way.
operator: okay. are you near there?
caller: yes, we live right across the street. it's a townhome subdivision.
operator: are any weapons involved or mentioned?
caller: i don't, she didn't mention any.
operator: okay. do you know how many people are involved?
caller: well, i don't know, i assume maybe four.
operator: can you see anyone?
caller: yes, the lady's still outside. she's in the middle of the road.
operator: where is the nephew or the son?
caller: the son came running outside, but the nephew is still inside.
operator: okay. do you know what the person who's doing the hitting looks like?
caller: well, i think they're asian, maybe japanese or korean.
operator: did they arrive in a vehicle? do you know?
caller: yes, they're in a toyota. it's white. it's still parked in the driveway. everyone is outside except for the nephew.
operator: is it a sedan?
caller: no, it's an suv. maybe a highlander or a rav4, it's white.
operator: are there any children present that you can see?
caller: no, not small children.
operator: has anyone involved been using alcohol or drugs?
caller: i don't know. the woman came over here screaming saying she thinks the nephew is on drugs or something.
operator: is anyone injured or sick?
caller: well, the nephew was hitting his mother, and the lady that lives there says she got hit.
operator: okay. an officer will be dispatched as soon as possible. if anything changes or you have any further information, what's your name? do you want to be contacted by officers?
caller: oh god, oh god. are you guys coming?
operator: yes, we are sending someone. what's going on now?
caller: i don't know if the guy is chasing after her. is anyone on their way?
operator: yes, help is on the way. please stay calm. what's going on now?
caller: the dog is barking. all the lights are on in the house. did you send someone?
operator: yes, stay calm. does your husband know what is going on?
caller: i need to check on my husband. he's outside.
operator: okay, stay inside and lock your door.
caller: i'm going to go check on my husband. someone's coming into my house!
operator: okay, ma'am, stay where you are. can you lock yourself in the bathroom?
caller: yes, i'm in the bathroom. someone is in my house!
operator: okay, just stay there. is your husband with you?
caller: no, he was outside. i don't know where he is now. someone is hitting the door!
operator: is the person chasing after him?
caller: yes, oh my god. someone is shooting!
operator: did anyone get hit?
caller: i don't know. i think my husband is hurt. please send help quickly!
operator: ma'am, we have officers on the way. can you see your husband?
caller: no, i can't see him. i'm too scared to leave the bathroom.
operator: stay in the bathroom. the officers are on their way.
caller: oh my god, there is blood everywhere. my back door is broken.
operator: ma'am, stay calm. can you see anyone outside the bathroom?
caller: i think someone is laying in front of the house.
operator: can you describe the person?
caller: i think it's my husband. he's not moving!
operator: okay, the police are on the way. stay in the bathroom until they arrive.
caller: i can't hear anything over the dog barking. where are the police?
operator: they are on their way. stay calm and stay in the bathroom.
caller: my husband is on the floor, bleeding.
operator: are you still in the bathroom?
caller: yes. i'm so scared. please hurry.
operator: you're doing great. the officers are almost there.
caller: i don't see anyone. i'm too scared to leave the bathroom.
operator: it's okay. stay where you are. they are coming. just hold on a little longer.
operator: okay, ma'am, have you seen any police officers arrive yet?
caller: no. i'm too scared to look.
operator: that's fine. just stay where you are until you hear the police announce themselves.
caller: i'm so scared. my husband might be dead.
operator: it's okay to be scared. just stay on the line with me.
caller: i don't know how much longer i can hold on.
operator: you're doing great. just stay with me. help is on the way.
caller: i can hear someone at the door.
operator: it's probably the police. can you call out to them?
caller: yes. okay. i heard voices. i think they are here.
operator: go ahead and call out to them if you feel it's safe.
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: you're welcome. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: i don't really know where i'm at. but one of my customers just got robbed and he got shot.
operator: okay. find out where you are, hon.
caller: yeah, i'm on 62. it's morris avenue, or morris street.
operator: are you in giff county?
caller: i'm right here off 62 at crossroads. you know where the mobile gas station is?
operator: okay. i see morris and east fairfield. hold on, sweetie, okay? hold on.
caller: please hurry up, he just got shot. please hurry up.
operator: hold on for me, okay. what's your phone number you're calling from?
caller: okay.
operator: they both got guns and they're chasing me.
caller: i need ems. he just got shot in the chest.
operator: okay. please hurry up.
operator: hold on. what's your cell phone number in case we get disconnected? what's your name, hon?
caller: please hurry up. they call me.
operator: do you know why they're chasing you, hon?
caller: well, he's got a bunch of nice cars in the driveway, and they just walked up and pulled a gun and said that they want the money.
operator: okay.
caller: and van told him, he said, i don't have no money. they said, you think i'm playing around? i'm not. and they just shot him.
operator: listen to me, sweetie. what business is this at?
caller: it's not a business. it's the second house on the right when you pull on morris.
operator: oh, morris? okay.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: all right. what are they wearing, hon?
caller: black pants and gray hoodies.
operator: okay. please hurry. i'm going to keep you on the line until they get there, okay.
caller: please hurry up. they're coming to them. they're coming.
operator: they're coming as fast as they can, okay.
caller: oh, my god. you said they're wearing black pants and gray sweatshirts?
operator: yes, ma'am. listen to me, sweetie, okay. you're doing good, all right?
caller: oh, my god. i can't believe this. it's broad daylight. they just came up and shot him.
caller: tell the cops i'm back here in the woods hiding. i've got a green shirt.
operator: okay. i need you to stay on the phone with me until they get there, and i'm letting them know. i'm updating them as you talk to me, okay?
caller: i'm in the woods. i've got a green shirt and tan pants on.
operator: okay, tell them not to shoot me. where was your friend when he was shot? where exactly was he at the house?
caller: on the back porch. we were just sitting out there talking. these two black males walked up and pulled guns.
operator: okay.
caller: they asked, where's the money? van said, i ain't got no money on me.
operator: okay. what happened next?
caller: they shot him. i don't want to go check on van, but i'm scared.
operator: no, i need you to stay where you are. your friend's name is van yates?
caller: yes, ma'am. i don't hear any cops. where are they?
operator: they're on the way. you just remain calm, okay?
caller: i hope he's not dead. oh, my god.
operator: how old is your friend?
caller: he's probably in his mid-50s.
operator: and he was shot right in the chest?
caller: yes, point blank.
operator: do you see if he's awake?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, that's fine. but they shot him right in the chest?
caller: yes. van has guns in the house. he went to get money, but they shot him when he opened the screen door.
operator: okay. please hurry up. is there a vehicle in the driveway?
caller: there’s a white chevrolet. my truck is sitting outside.
operator: is that van's vehicle in the driveway?
caller: yes, ma'am. i don't know if those guys pulled up or walked.
operator: i'll let you know when you can come out. in the meantime, stay where you are, okay?
caller: oh, my god. i'm like a sitting duck here with this green shirt on. please hurry up. van might be dead.
operator: i know, hon. why did this have to happen?
caller: van is one of the best people in the world. and they just shot him.
operator: why were they trying to rob him?
caller: i guess because he has nice cars in the driveway. i don't know. please hurry up.
operator: i understand. i need you to stay put. where are the cops?
caller: i hear sirens.
operator: don't go out until i tell you. stay put. are you behind the barn?
caller: yes, i'm behind the barn.
operator: okay. i'll let them know. hold tight.
caller: why is it taking so long? he's going to be dead.
operator: you stay there until i tell you to come out, okay?
caller: have they got the ambulance coming?
operator: yes, we have the ambulance, police, and fire on the way.
caller: oh, my gosh. i hope he doesn't die.
operator: right now, we're trying to find out where the suspects are. it won't do any good if they shoot my people.
caller: i understand, ma'am.
operator: did you see if they left or what?
caller: whenever they shot van, i just took off running.
operator: which i understand, but i can't send in my rescue people until we know where they are. i don't want my people shot either.
caller: i've seen the archdale police department coming down the road.
operator: okay. stay put until i tell you to come out.
caller: you are doing good. i was going to get shot.
operator: you did the right thing. if you got hurt, we wouldn't have known.
caller: yes, ma'am. i hear the sheriff's department now.
operator: just let me know when they come out.
caller: i'll let you know, okay? stay put.
caller: man, i hope van's not dead. golly.
operator: where were those guys?
caller: i don't know. we were on the porch, and they just walked up. i didn’t hear a car.
caller: i just ran. i still can't believe they shot van. is the ambulance there yet?
operator: i'm not sending the ambulance in until we find the suspects.
caller: are they close by?
operator: yes, they're close. just stay tight until i tell you to come out.
caller: i can't believe this. have they found van yet?
operator: i don't know, hon. i have a bunch of police units coming, including archdale and the sheriff's department.
caller: is that all right?
operator: we're managing the situation, hon.
caller: my god. when can they come in?
operator: our sheriff's department is there, and they're telling the ems people to come on in. hold on, and i'll let you know when you can come out, okay?
caller: all right.
operator: do you have anything on you?
caller: no, no weapons. i'll come out with my hands up. i'm behind the barn.
operator: hold on. just stay, okay? let them get your friend situated and figure out where the suspects are. then they'll tell you to come out.
caller: i hear the ambulance.
operator: they're there along with the fire department and the sheriff's department, but they need to get some things straightened out first.
caller: i don't know. oh, my god.
operator: i know, hon. just hold on.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we've been robbed. we've been beaten. i'm bleeding.
operator: what's the address of your emergency?
caller: seven hundred.
operator: alright, listen to me. how many subjects were there?
caller: one.
operator: were they male or female?
caller: male. black male. big.
operator: alright, he has her car? what kind of car is it?
caller: it's a 2007 honda civic. it's blue.
scenario:domestic
operator: alright, listen to me. i'm going to get you an ambulance, okay? give me one second.
caller: okay, i'm bleeding from my head. he beat me with a gun.
operator: i'm going to ask you a few questions, okay? how many people are there with you?
caller: it's me and another woman. she's my manager.
operator: what was the black male wearing? it's very important.
caller: he had a black long-sleeve shirt, black jogger pants. he had a kind of a ski mask that only covered his mouth. he had short hair, almost like a little tiny fro. and he was heavy-set.
operator: what kind of gun was it? was it a black gun, silver gun, small gun, or big gun?
caller: black gun. big.
operator: was it a rifle or a handgun?
caller: handgun.
operator: which way did he take off in your car? which way did he go?
caller: he made us lay on the floor. i'm too scared to get up.
operator: that's fine. just take a deep breath, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: and what's wrong with your manager? what are her injuries?
caller: she was hit in the head with a gun. she's talking to me. i'm holding her hand.
operator: alright. listen to me, the ambulance and the fire department are on their way. police are in the area. i need you to stay on the line with me, okay?
caller: yes, please tell us when they contact us.
operator: chris, is law enforcement there?
caller: yes, they're here.
operator: they're there. okay, i'm going to go ahead and let you go. you need to speak with them, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: the ambulance is on its way.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: everybody's been stopped. we're at the rainier lighting and electric supply building.
operator: rainier lighting and electric?
caller: off pacific avenue.
operator: pacific highway southwest, you mean?
caller: pacific highway southwest.
operator: okay. who stopped him?
caller: i don't know. it was four black kids in a black car.
operator: did they try to take something from him?
caller: no. they stopped. they stopped.
operator: okay, listen to me, okay? my partner's going to get medical aid. i want you to stay calm.
caller: oh, please. operator, i've got a phone call.
operator: listen to me, okay?
caller: please, please. i think he's dead.
operator: okay, listen to me, okay? my partner's getting medical aid. where are the people who did this?
caller: they drove off. they went north on pacific avenue towards bridgeport.
operator: okay, what kind of car?
caller: they were in a black sedan. all black males. i don't have a license plate number.
operator: how old are they, roughly?
caller: mid-20s, maybe.
operator: okay, i've got help started, okay? there are a lot of people coming to you. i'm going to stay on the line with you until they find you. are you in the back or the front of the business?
caller: we're on the street, on pacific avenue, on the side of the road, in the bike lane. he's on the ground.
operator: does he know these people who stabbed him?
caller: no, we don't know.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is matthew. my name is specialist matthew b. barr. i'm with the united states army.
operator: okay. did this all happen at this location?
caller: no. we were walking into the street, going back to our friend's house, and he fell back and got stabbed.
operator: okay, matthew, i'm going to stay on the line with you until they find you. my partner's already getting medical aid.
caller: okay, i can see a police car.
operator: can you wave them down so they know where you are?
caller: yes. i know.
operator: what's your friend's name?
caller: my friend's name is specialist kevin a. guy. he's with the 16th combat aviation brigade at fort lewis, washington, in the united states army.
operator: do you think these guys did this because you're in the army?
caller: probably. probably because we're soldiers.
operator: are you in uniform?
caller: i am not in uniform. the police are here.
operator: the police are there? okay, talk to them. i'll let you go.
caller: thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, it is. i'm on 29, heading back towards fosters, and i just saw a car driving down the wrong lane.
operator: okay, are you heading towards fosters now?
caller: yes, but i've turned around to catch up with him and see what's going on.
operator: were you heading towards winsburg initially?
caller: i'm heading back towards ruffberg now. he's still in the wrong lane. i'm going southbound, and he's in the northbound lane heading south.
operator: do you know where he is right now?
caller: i turned around and am heading back down towards apple market. let me see if i can catch up to him.
caller: oh no, he almost hit someone! he's going south in the northbound lane!
operator: okay, i need you to be careful. can you see any landmarks or where he's currently driving?
caller: yes, i see bambino's restaurant. he just passed it and he's still in the wrong lane. i'm flying, doing 70, to catch up.
operator: alright, so you see him now passing the truck stop?
caller: yes, i see him passing the truck stop. i'm keeping an eye on my speed too. he's really speeding.
operator: okay, and where are you now?
caller: at browns market at brownsville road. he's still in the wrong lane.
operator: alright, so he's going southbound in the northbound lane?
caller: yes, we're near the exxon and bridgeview market now, and he's still in the wrong lane.
caller: he's in a dark car, four-door, and he's speeding. we're almost at kelly's store and he's still in the wrong lane.
operator: you're approaching kelly's market now?
caller: yes, and he's still in the wrong lane, heading towards vanville.
operator: what kind of vehicle are you in?
caller: i'm in a green trailblazer and traffic is just getting out of the way. i'm doing about 60 now.
operator: okay, thank you. and where exactly are you now?
caller: we're coming up on marysville road. he has a broken brake light on the driver's side.
operator: so you're near dearborn road now?
caller: yes, we're passing dearborn road. he must be drunk. he's all over the road.
operator: okay, please be careful. where are you now?
caller: we're passing marysville road. he's still in the wrong lane, and there's a lot of traffic.
operator: i have officers on the way. can you provide more landmarks or locations?
caller: we're at tenial baptist church now. i'm trying to flag people down with my lights so they see this driver.
operator: you're at tenial baptist now?
caller: yes, we're passing it now. he's still in the wrong lane, and it's getting dangerous.
operator: okay, are you still behind him?
caller: yes, we're coming up on perkins restaurant now. he's slowing down a bit but still switching lanes.
operator: can you see any police officers yet?
caller: not yet. we're at the perkins restaurant now and about to hit a stretch where i might lose sight of him.
operator: i've got officers running codes. they are on the way.
caller: alright, we're heading towards vista motors now. he's still speeding up and slowing down.
operator: do not put yourself in danger. are you still able to keep an eye on him?
caller: yes, but we're approaching the bridge and he's speeding up again. i'm at 75 now. he's flying.
operator: please don't endanger yourself. can you see any officers nearby?
caller: yes, i see a police on the bridge! he hit his brakes. the officer needs to come down.
operator: do you see the officer coming down now?
caller: yes, he's coming down the bridge now. the driver is slowing down and might be taking an exit.
operator: where is he now?
caller: he's taking the next exit. i see blue lights flashing in his rear windshield.
operator: alright, thank you for that information. stay on the line. where are the officers now?
caller: they're turning around to follow him. i'll try to keep an eye on him from here.
operator: thank you for your help. please continue to be safe and let the officers handle it.
caller: alright, i'll keep my distance now. i hope they catch him.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hurry up! call 999. here.
operator: what's going on?
caller: i knew the ammo around.
operator: what happened?
caller: she is...
operator: okay, okay, listen to me. is the baby out of the pool?
caller: she's out of the pool.
operator: okay, is she breathing?
caller: no, she's not.
operator: okay, does anyone know how to do cpr?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: okay, i can tell you. how old is the child?
caller: she's three.
operator: okay, where is she laying? is she laying on the floor?
caller: she's laying on the bed.
operator: okay, ma'am, i can tell you how to do cpr. can you listen to me?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, is she laying on a hard surface?
caller: she's laying on the bed. she's throwing up.
operator: she's throwing up? okay, okay. turn her to the left, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: see if she's breathing now.
caller: no, she's not.
operator: she's not breathing? clean her mouth out, then.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: roll her to her side and clean out her mouth.
caller: okay.
operator: how long was she in the water?
caller: she just fell in the water.
operator: so was she face down?
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: she needs to be on a hard surface like the floor.
caller: she's on the bed.
operator: did you clean out her mouth?
caller: yes.
operator: okay, check and see if she's breathing at all. is her chest rising?
caller: no, it's not.
operator: listen to me, i'm going to tell you what to do, okay? pinch her nose, and with the other hand, lift her chin and gently tilt her head back. cover her mouth with yours and give two deep breaths.
caller: okay.
operator: now, you need to check and see if her chest rises after that.
caller: no, it didn't.
operator: then we need to do chest compressions.
caller: wait a minute, ma'am, hurry.
operator: listen to me. is she awake? is she breathing? what is she doing?
caller: she's not awake.
operator: okay, did you give her the two breaths?
caller: okay.
operator: now, you need to start chest compressions. put the heel of one hand in the center of her chest, right between her nipples, and push down about half the depth of the chest 30 times quickly.
caller: thirty times quickly?
operator: yes, 3-0.
caller: okay.
operator: i have them on the way to you, okay? they're on the way to help you. keep giving breaths and doing compressions.
caller: okay.
caller: oh, i can't.
operator: i understand, ma'am. we're coming.
operator: did you do your 30 compressions?
caller: yes.
operator: now you pinch the nose, lift the chin, and gently tilt the head back and give two breaths again. then do 30 compressions again.
caller: okay.
operator: check if she's trying to cough or if she's responding.
caller: okay, she's trying to.
operator: check if she's breathing, is her chest rising? check if she has a pulse.
caller: yes.
operator: is there anything else blocking her airway?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: they're on the way, i promise. they're coming as fast as they can.
caller: please help me, help me.
operator: is somebody there with you?
caller: no, ma'am.
operator: what's going on? is she responding?
caller: no, she's just trying to.
operator: keep trying to wake her up. make sure she has a pulse and see if her chest is rising.
caller: who's there with you?
caller: the neighbor.
caller: i can hear the sirens, i'm going to go out and get them.
caller: hello?
operator: hello?
caller: wait a minute, please.
caller: hello?
operator: yes?
caller: my neighbor is with her. ma'am, is she breathing?
operator: ma'am, hello?
caller: yes, thank you.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, i'm reporting an airplane crash at sfo.
operator: an airplane crash at sfo?
caller: yeah, we were hiking on a trail outside of pacifica, and we just heard a giant explosion. we're with a couple other hikers, and they saw that an airplane had crashed right there at sfo.
operator: actually, at the airport?
caller: yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
operator: what's your name?
caller: my name is jared foster.
operator: all right, jared, hang on the line. i'll transfer you over to the police department at sfo, okay?
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: 999 emergency, what are you reporting?
caller: hi, there was an airplane crash at sfo.
operator: okay, we did get the call.
caller: you did?
operator: yes, we did. we are responding. trust me.
caller: okay, thank you. bye.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, we're at the san francisco airport, and our airplane just crashed upon landing. we need help here as soon as possible.
operator: okay, what runway are you on?
caller: i don't know the runway. we just ran out of the airplane.
operator: what kind of airplane were you in?
caller: asiana airlines.
operator: there's a bunch of fire trucks and a couple of ambulances. there are a lot of people injured, and we need more help.
caller: my name is sang duong.
operator: do you know where on the runway you are?
caller: i see ffp, but i'm looking around trying to see something, but i don't really see much else.
operator: you're in a field?
caller: yeah, we're in the middle of the runway. i can see the main terminal, but i don't know much more. sorry, i'm not familiar with this airport.
operator: okay, hang on the line. let me get you over there. don't disconnect.
caller: okay, i see tons of cops and ambulances coming now, but not too many ambulances.
operator: okay, we do have ambulances and the fire department on the way. can you tell me if there are people trapped on the plane?
caller: most people got off. i think there are at least a handful of people behind me.
operator: are you guys actually trapped, or are people just slowly getting off?
caller: most people are off. some emergency crews are going into the plane now.
operator: okay, sorry for the misunderstanding. are the passengers all safely getting off the slide?
caller: yes, almost everyone is out. the majority of people are out of the airplane.
caller: i don't know the specific runway, but we are next to some wreckage. i see signs that say 'monitor 120.5.'
operator: that's okay. what kind of aircraft is it?
caller: it's an asiana plane. sorry, i'm really not sure.
operator: got it. are you safe where you are?
caller: yes, we're way past the field, at least 100 yards out.
operator: california highway patrol, what's your emergency?
caller: hi, we are at the san francisco international airport, and we just got in a plane crash. there are a lot of people that need help.
operator: are you with any of the ambulances that are there?
caller: no, they haven't found us yet, and there are people here who are burned really badly.
operator: where are you?
caller: we're out on the outskirts, not towards the airport itself, more in the field where planes land.
operator: stay on the line. let me get you over to medical.
caller: okay.
operator: ambulance emergency, what's the location of your emergency?
caller: we're at the san francisco international airport.
operator: do you need help?
caller: yes, we just got in a plane crash, and there are people who still need help. there's not enough medics out here.
operator: we have help on the way. you said there's a woman very severely burned?
caller: yes, she needs help immediately. she will probably die soon if we don't get help.
operator: can you confirm your phone number, please?
caller: 831-234-681.
operator: where on the runway are you?
scenario:fire
caller: we're next to a united airplane near the beginning of the runway where the plane debris is.
operator: how old is she?
caller: about 25 or 24. she's severely burned.
operator: i'll ask you some questions and see if i can provide instructions.
operator: 999, what's your emergency?
caller: i'm seeing a fire from the side of the road in burlingame.
operator: what road are you on?
caller: i'm on 101 north.
operator: near what exit?
caller: near broadway.
operator: do you see it to the right or left of the freeway?
caller: to the right.
operator: let me get fire department on the line with us.
operator: ambulance emergency, what's the location?
caller: we're at the san francisco international airport.
operator: do you need help?
caller: yes, we just had a plane crash. there are people seriously injured on the tarmac, and we need ambulances here.
operator: we're aware of the situation and have units responding.
caller: there are people laying on the tarmac with critical injuries, and we're trying to help them.
operator: what's your name?
caller: cindy stone.
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from, cindy?
caller: 831-583-021.
operator: let me transfer you to san francisco medical.
operator: ambulance emergency, what are you reporting?
caller: hi, this is chp with a transfer. she's part of the crash at san francisco airport. go ahead.
caller: hello? hello.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we heard a noise and looked in. the garage door was up. i thought the gentleman was backing out. i went back to my house, but he never backed out. i came back over, and his driver's side window is shattered, and he's injured and can't answer.
operator: okay, and the phone number you're calling from?
caller: i'm calling from [caller provides phone number].
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: he's inside. i don't know if somebody tried to shoot him, if he shot himself, or what. i don't know.
operator: was that at this location, correct?
caller: yes, send an ambulance in a hurry. an emt. he's still alive. he's moving.
operator: okay. what's going on with him?
caller: i don't know. the driver's side window is all bashed in, and he's got blood all over his head. he's not responding to me.
operator: what's your name, sir?
caller: my name is [caller provides name]. i think you need to hurry.
operator: yes, i'm sending help your way. i just want to ask you a few more questions, okay?
caller: go ahead, but send them while you're asking.
operator: yes, sir. they're already on the way. are you with him now?
caller: i'm standing right outside the garage door.
operator: can you tell me how old he is?
caller: i don't know. he looks like maybe 35 or 40.
operator: okay, hang on one second for me, okay?
operator: i apologize about that. how old is the patient again?
caller: i'm not sure. he looks maybe 35 or 40.
operator: is he awake?
caller: he's moving his head around, but he's not responding. i've called his name and asked what's going on, but he's not responding to that. his head's just kind of rolling around.
operator: is he conscious?
caller: well, i can't tell.
operator: is he breathing?
caller: i can't tell that. i'm assuming he's breathing if he's moving his head around. did not hear him talk or anything.
operator: okay. you said he's sitting in the car, right?
caller: correct. in the driver's seat.
operator: where exactly is he?
caller: in the driver's seat, inside the garage.
operator: can you direct the emergency crews to him, sir?
caller: sure, sure.
operator: alright, i'm sending the paramedics to help you now. just stay on the line. i'll tell you exactly what to do next.
caller: okay.
operator: if it's safe to do so, see if he is conscious, breathing, or moving at all.
caller: it's not safe for me to do. i don't want to put my hand in there.
operator: okay, well, help is on the way.
caller: alright, standing by. i've heard about break-ins in the area, and so i decided to walk over and take a look. the garage door was up, and i saw the window is shattered and he's got blood.
operator: just stand in line with me for now, okay, sir?
caller: okay, i'm here.
operator: i got emergency crews on the way to you.
caller: very good. i'm standing at the street. if i see them coming down, i can direct them right in.
operator: so he won't respond to you at all if you holler at him or anything?
caller: yeah, he didn't respond, but his head is kind of moving around.
operator: okay.
caller: i've walked away from the car right now. i'm standing at the street.
operator: the window shattered. the garage door was up, correct?
caller: yes.
operator: give me a second. i'll try to see where the emergency crews are, okay? is he still moving around?
caller: i don't know. i'm standing at the street now trying to wait for your vehicle.
operator: okay, where exactly are they coming from? checking, got several people on the way.
caller: yes, please hurry. we're close to the hospital.
operator: well, it looks like one person is coming from clay road.
caller: so you're saying his head is bloody?
operator: yes, the window is shattered. i don't know if he tried to shoot himself. i don't know what the situation is.
caller: is the driver's side window shattered, correct?
operator: yes, that's correct.
caller: he's still moving around, so he's alive.
operator: okay, looks like i should have an officer coming up the roadway.
caller: we need emt.
operator: well, the officer's going to be there first. they're not going to come until we figure out what's going on, but emt is on the way as well, okay?
caller: they better hurry if this guy's got a shot at living.
operator: yes, sir. they're on the way as well, okay?
caller: okay, looks like the officer is coming up right now.
operator: is he there?
caller: yeah, he's just coming up right now.
operator: okay, i'm going to go ahead and let you go, sir, okay?
caller: okay, very good. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i've been attacked by a man in the woods while i was hunting. please send the police to my location immediately.
operator: where are you at?
caller: i cannot stay on the phone. i have to cover him. please send the police immediately.
operator: where are you? we need your location.
caller: my name is jeff mcdonald. i'm on top of the hill out by banks. i was hunting and i was attacked by a man.
operator: do you know your exact location?
caller: i don't know the exact coordinate. i hope you can get it from my 999 call. here's my wife's number; she can bring you to me. her name is deborah.
operator: tell us what's happening right now.
caller: i was attacked by a naked man. he's laying near me now. i'm holding my deer rifle on him. i need the police up here now.
operator: will your wife know where you are?
caller: yes, she will. please call her and tell her i'm on top of the hill. i can't call her directly; i tried.
operator: okay, we will call her. can you stay on the phone?
caller: i may not be able to. i want to call my wife, but i'll stay for now. my battery is low.
operator: we'll get some help out to you. give me your wife's number.
caller: okay, her number is 5...
operator: where exactly are you again?
caller: i'm about half a mile south of our house on a hill. i was attacked by a naked man. he's laying nearby, and i'm holding him at gunpoint.
operator: are you or the attacker injured?
caller: yes, both of us are injured, but it's not life-threatening.
operator: do you have anything to signal your location?
caller: i don't want to fire my rifle. i can blow a whistle when they get close.
operator: start blowing the whistle now. keep going until they find you.
caller: okay, i'll start blowing the whistle.
operator: are you on foot?
caller: yes, i'm on foot.
operator: does your wife know exactly where to guide them?
caller: yes, she does. she can guide them to me. they need to come through the logging gate.
operator: okay, we'll be there as soon as we can. can you stay on the line?
caller: i'll stay on unless my phone dies.
operator: we'll get help to you. they will be on foot.
caller: okay, thank you.
operator: keep blowing the whistle every 20 seconds.
caller: okay, i will.
operator: do you see or hear anything?
caller: yes, they're here. i see them.
operator: great, stay with them and follow their instructions. thank you and take care.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: oh, yes. i need an officer at 2007 callison highway.
operator: what's wrong?
caller: oh, i'm just stressed out, and i'm about to take my life.
operator: what's your name?
caller: it's unknown.
operator: okay, do you have a weapon with you?
caller: huh?
operator: do you have a weapon with you?
caller: yes.
operator: what do you have, sir?
caller: i'm 44.
caller: get in there. don't bleed at me.
operator: what's going on?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we are at the corner of riley thompson and automobile road. there's a lady lying in the road. i think she was hit by a car.
operator: okay, she's got a head injury. can you confirm the location is riley thompson and automobile road?
caller: yes, on automobile road, near 4300 automobile.
operator: okay, stay on the phone with me. i'm getting help out there. did you see what happened to her?
caller: we just came upon her. she has a pulse but is unconscious.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: yes, she is breathing and has a pulse.
operator: do you see who hit her or any obvious injuries?
caller: she has a head injury and is lying face down.
operator: okay, don't move her. is she by herself?
caller: yes, she's all alone.
operator: alright, help is on the way. what's your name?
caller: my name is mark klim.
operator: mark, i got help coming. what's your phone number?
caller: you need to hurry.
operator: they are already on the way. did anyone see what happened?
caller: no, i'm not sure what else to do. her pulse is weak.
operator: okay. is she halfway in the road?
caller: yes, but the road is not busy.
operator: what kind of car are you in?
caller: i'm in a burgundy toyota camry in the middle of the road.
operator: do you have your hazard lights on?
caller: yes.
operator: does your wife think she needs cpr?
caller: does she need cpr, michelle? no, she's still breathing and has a pulse.
operator: okay. if she needs cpr, i can help with that. the fire department and ambulance are on their way.
caller: alright, michelle says she has a pulse, just a weak one.
operator: i need to know if she's breathing normally.
caller: michelle, is she breathing normally? no, she isn't.
operator: alright, we need to start cpr. turn her over carefully, stabilizing her head.
caller: there's another car coming; maybe they can help.
operator: they're on the way. if you can't move her, that's okay, but we need to start cpr if she isn't breathing normally.
caller: michelle thinks we should move her. she's got a really bad head injury and is bleeding.
operator: is she bleeding from anywhere specific?
caller: yes, from her head and her right ear.
operator: okay, i'm going to check with my supervisor.
operator: we need to turn her over and start cpr. stabilize her head as you do so.
caller: got it. mark, take her hips and shoulders; michelle will help with her head.
operator: great. once she's turned over, check her mouth for any obstructions.
caller: one, two, three. oh, my god. she isn't breathing.
operator: start cpr immediately. i'll stay on the phone with you.
caller: alright, opening her airway now. michelle, start cpr.
operator: you're doing great. keep her airway open, and start chest compressions if you can't give breaths.
caller: she's making noises.
operator: that's okay. keep doing cpr until help arrives.
caller: where are they?
operator: they're on their way to 4300 automobile road. you should hear sirens shortly.
caller: no one else has stopped yet.
operator: you're doing great. it seems long, but they're coming as fast as they can.
caller: we can do this. i can't believe someone hit her and left.
operator: stay strong. i hear sirens now.
caller: okay, i hear them too. keep going, michelle.
operator: keep doing cpr until they take over.
caller: he's here now, getting his stuff out.
operator: alright, let him take over when he's ready.
caller: thank you. we found her face down.
operator: mark, what’s your phone number?
caller: my number is [redacted].
operator: you did a great job. help is there now. i'm going to let you go. thank you.
caller: thank you. bye.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, i need an ambulance immediately at 18 victoria circle.
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: we have a gunshot wound, accidental, in the household.
operator: okay, how old is the person who was shot?
caller: 34.
operator: are they conscious and breathing?
caller: she's breathing.
operator: where was she shot?
caller: it looks like the head. she's bleeding. oh, there's a lot of blood.
operator: okay. i'm getting everybody out to you.
caller: oh, my god. thank you.
operator: you're welcome.
operator: hello.
caller: hi, this is 999.
operator: yes. how is she doing?
caller: we need help.
operator: i've got them all coming.
operator: okay. where's the weapon?
caller: we don't know right now. it wasn't in here. it was our weapon.
operator: okay, it's in the house?
caller: yes, it's in the house.
caller: we had a babysitter earlier, we put all the weapons away. we were putting them back out to protect ourselves, and it fired.
caller: there's no problem with the police.
operator: okay, so you don't know where the weapon is in the house?
caller: no, there are multiple weapons in the house, but the police need to get here.
operator: we've got everybody coming. i just need to make sure, you know.
caller: yes.
operator: and is she still breathing?
caller: yes.
operator: okay. that's why i just want to check on you and make sure, but i do have fire and medics and everybody else on the way.
caller: no, please.
operator: okay. is it just you guys at home along with the kids?
caller: no, we have two children in the house and the dog.
operator: okay, and the dog is going to get wild right now?
caller: yes.
operator: can you put the dog away?
caller: no.
caller: can i put you on hold and check on her right now?
operator: hold on.
caller: how long?
operator: i don't know.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we're having a baby, and we're in boulder creek. we need to get to sutter.
operator: okay, tell me exactly what happened.
caller: my girlfriend's going into labor, her contractions are three to five minutes apart, or a little bit closer.
caller: they're closer now.
operator: okay, and she's getting pushing feelings?
scenario:active_shooter
caller: i just called sutter. they told me to call 999.
operator: okay. are you with her now?
caller: yeah.
operator: is she conscious?
caller: yeah.
operator: and is she breathing?
caller: yeah.
operator: how many weeks pregnant is she?
caller: uh, nine months.
operator: is the baby completely out?
caller: what? oh no, it's still in.
operator: okay, that's good. can you see any part of the baby now?
caller: no, i can't see any part of the baby.
operator: all right, stay on the line with me. i'm going to get help going for you right now and i'll have more instructions for you.
caller: okay.
operator: you're not going to hear me for a second, but just stay on the line, okay?
caller: okay, that's fine.
operator: i've got the paramedics on the way. i'll stay on the line to tell you exactly what to do next, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: do not try to prevent the birth. do not have her sit on the toilet. allow her to assume the most comfortable position and have her take deep breaths between contractions.
caller: okay, keep breathing, hon. deep breaths.
caller: do you have an eta?
operator: just a couple of minutes, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: i'm going to stay on the line with you here. there should still be some time left before delivery occurs. reassure her that help is on the way and have her take slow, deep breaths between contractions.
caller: she is. she's doing good. how are you, honey?
operator: is she feeling the need to push?
caller: are you still feeling the need to push, hon? just when the contractions come. she's having another one.
operator: tell her that we're coming with lights and sirens. there should still be some time left before delivery occurs. help is on the way, and she should take slow, deep breaths between each contraction.
caller: you're coming with lights and sirens. okay, help is on the way. take slow, deep breaths between each contraction.
operator: if anything changes, tell me immediately. i'm going to keep you on the line here until they arrive, okay?
caller: okay.
caller: i see crowning.
operator: as the baby delivers, support the baby's head and shoulders and hold the hips and legs firmly. remember, the baby will be slippery, so don't drop it.
caller: okay, you're doing really good. just let me know if you see any more crowning, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: you're not going to hear me for a second, but i'm right here, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: how's she doing?
caller: the ambulance is across the street. they're on the wrong side.
caller: she's having a contraction. the baby's crowning. they're on the wrong side of highway 9, across the street. they need to hurry.
operator: i've already told them. okay, the baby is coming out right now?
caller: yes, the baby's coming out right now.
operator: as the baby delivers, support the baby's head and shoulders and hold the hips and legs firmly. remember, the baby will be slippery, so don't drop it. keep supporting it.
caller: okay, she's fine. just don't move, honey.
caller: sir, the baby's out.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: somebody was trying to rob us.
caller: she's outside right now.
operator: okay, where are you, what address are you at?
caller: 2150 north milford road.
operator: okay, what city or township are you in?
caller: we're in highland township.
operator: okay. how are they trying to rob you?
caller: she basically had a mask on and pointed a gun at me.
operator: okay. and she's on the floor right now?
caller: one of my employees is holding her down.
caller: she can't be more than 16 years old.
operator: okay. what's the business name?
caller: it's called country lake food center on milford road.
operator: okay, and she did have a gun?
caller: yeah, she pointed a gun at me. i thought it was a joke at first.
operator: okay. are you the clerk?
caller: yes. he's holding her down right now.
operator: and it's a teenage female, you said?
caller: yes, a girl.
operator: how old does she look to be?
caller: she doesn't look more than 16 years old.
operator: okay. how many people are in the store right now?
caller: there's me and two employees.
operator: okay, where is the gun?
caller: the gun is on the floor.
operator: okay, i don't want anybody to grab that.
caller: i don't know if it's a fake gun. i have no idea.
operator: okay. what does she look like?
caller: she's in all black.
operator: does she have a mask on?
caller: yeah, she had a hoodie on and a mask.
operator: what's going on right now? is your manager still holding her down?
caller: yeah, she's holding her down. she's crying.
operator: is she fighting him?
caller: no, she's not fighting.
operator: have you ever seen her before?
caller: i don't know. she had a mask on.
operator: okay, but she doesn't have the mask on anymore?
caller: i don't know.
operator: okay, i'm going to stay on the line with you until the police get there. where is she at in the store?
caller: i was down the aisle, and i saw someone walk behind the counter.
caller: the police just came right now.
operator: okay, they are there?
caller: yeah, they are here.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go so you can talk to them, okay?
caller: okay. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: please, my brother, he was playing with this gun, and he was pointing it at himself. he shot himself!
operator: what’s the address?
caller: i’m so scared, i’m so scared. it's 1123 ujama drive.
operator: is this where the emergency is?
caller: yes.
operator: do you want to talk to my daddy?
caller: yes, please put him on.
operator: hello, this is the father, what happened?
caller: my son just got shot, man.
operator: all right, stay with me. help is on the way. who shot him?
caller: i don’t know, i was in the back of the house.
operator: did anybody see him get shot?
caller: no, i didn’t see it happen.
operator: how old is your son?
caller: he’s three years old. he’s not moving!
operator: listen to me, i’ll tell you how to help him. are you with him now?
caller: yes.
operator: all right, we need to get him flat on his back on the ground. do you hear me?
caller: yes, he's on his back.
operator: remove any pillows. put him flat on his back without any pillows. do you understand?
caller: okay, no pillows. there's no food or vomit in his mouth.
operator: good. now put your hand on his forehead, your other hand under his neck, then carefully tilt his head back.
caller: he got shot in the face, man!
operator: i understand, but you need to do this to help him. hand on forehead, other hand under his neck, tilt his head back.
caller: okay, i've done that.
operator: place your ear next to his mouth and check for any breathing.
caller: i can feel a little breathing.
operator: good, keep his airway open. stay calm and keep checking his breathing. help is on the way.
caller: my son was just playing, and now there's blood everywhere!
operator: i understand there's blood, but you need to stay calm for your son. is he breathing regularly?
caller: i can't tell, his one eye is open.
operator: you need to ensure he keeps breathing. tilt his head back and watch closely.
caller: all right, i’ll do that.
operator: if you can’t see breathing, i’ll guide you through cpr. with his head back, pinch his nose, cover his mouth with yours, and give two gentle breaths, enough to make his chest rise.
caller: okay, i’m doing it. the ambulance is here!
operator: good, stay with them. help them as much as you can.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: brooke, 999, my husband's having a heart attack.
operator: we're going to start cpr on him, okay? i'm going to tell you what to do.
caller: okay.
operator: are you right next to him? put him flat on the floor on his back.
caller: okay.
operator: expose his chest.
caller: expose his chest.
operator: kneel by his side.
caller: okay.
operator: put the heel of your hand in the center of his chest right between the nipples.
caller: okay.
operator: push down firmly with only the heels of your hand, two inches.
caller: okay.
operator: and do it 30 times like you're pumping the chest. i'm going to count, i want you to go this fast. as fast as i'm counting.
caller: okay.
operator: okay. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty. start again.
caller: okay. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
operator: start again. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
caller: i know this is hard. i want to take a deep breath and stop crying and start again, okay?
operator: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
caller: okay, start again. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
operator: is he breathing, moving, or coughing at all?
caller: no, he's just gasping for air.
operator: okay, just keep doing it. go two inches deep. let's start again. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty.
caller: are they inside?
operator: yes, right. okay. keep going until they take over, okay?
caller: okay. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve.
operator: okay. the paramedics taken over?
caller: yes.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: help, this guy's chasing me down.
operator: where are you?
caller: south beverly grove.
operator: okay, is there a safe place you can go, like someone's house?
caller: no.
operator: are there any houses or buildings around you?
caller: no, there's nothing around.
operator: it's hard to understand you. are you on a phone?
caller: yes, i am.
operator: what's the nearest cross street?
caller: i can't see one. i'm in my car.
operator: where are you coming from?
caller: i'm in my car. please help me!
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: we had several police officers here earlier and did a report.
caller: they told him to stay away from the house and said to call 999 if he came back.
operator: what's his name?
caller: he's at the front door now and he's trying to get in.
operator: what do you mean he's trying to get in? is he pulling on the door?
caller: yes, he's pulling on the door and trying the doorknob.
caller: he just went from the back door to the front door.
operator: ma'am, i'll put you on hold for just a second so i can get somebody started your way, okay?
caller: okay.
operator: ma'am, are you still there?
caller: yes, he's trying to get in. he's threatening to break in and kill me.
operator: okay, we've got officers on the way. is he still outside the residence?
caller: yes, he's still outside the residence. he's on the back porch now, trying to get in.
caller: now he's going around to the front door again.
operator: just stay on the phone with me, okay? keep the doors locked and stay in a safe place.
caller: he's banging on the windows now.
operator: okay, we've got officers on the way. just stay on the line with me.
caller: i'm trying to get his elderly mother into a safer area.
caller: i think he's very inebriated. he's going around the front door again or one of the windows.
caller: oh, he's in the house!
operator: ma'am, can you tell me if he's inside the house?
caller: yes, he's in the house. oh my god!
operator: ma'am, is he inside the house? please confirm.
caller: he's got a knife. oh my god!
operator: ma'am, can you tell me if he's inside the house?
caller: yes, he's inside. he attacked us.
operator: ma'am, i need you to talk to me. what exactly happened?
caller: she stabbed him. she stabbed him.
operator: where is she right now?
caller: she's in the living room. he's on the floor.
operator: okay, is he breathing?
caller: yes, he's breathing. he's yelling.
operator: where is the knife now?
caller: i put it down.
operator: make sure he doesn't get to that knife. just stay on the line with me.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: yes, ma'am, could you send the police and an ambulance to main street grill, please?
operator: where, sir?
caller: main street grill.
operator: okay, what's going on at the main street grill?
caller: i just came in from taking out my trash and my manager is lying down and there's blood. please hurry!
operator: okay, we've got help on the way. do you know what happened?
caller: no, i just came back inside.
operator: is he responsive, sir?
caller: i didn't touch him, i didn't go near him. i walked up, saw the blood, and immediately called 9-9-9.
operator: where in the business is he located?
caller: this is main street grill, right downtown.
operator: i understand, but where exactly inside the business is he? in the kitchen? the bar?
caller: he's inside the bar, near the door going out.
operator: okay, we've got help on the way. is there anyone else inside the business with you?
caller: no, ma'am, i'm the only one here.
operator: okay, sir, listen, calm down. we have help on the way.
caller: i tried to flag someone down outside. what's taking so long?
operator: they've been on the way since you called, sir. what is your name?
caller: my name is <caller name>.
operator: what's the phone number i can reach you at?
caller: i'm staying on the phone until they get here.
operator: i understand, but i need the phone number you're calling from.
caller: okay, it's <phone number>.
operator: was the door locked when you left or was it open?
caller: i go out the back door to the restaurant to take out the trash. i just came back inside.
operator: alright, sir. help is almost there. stay with me.
caller: they're here! this way, this way! come on!
operator: okay, let them in.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: help me.
operator: hi, what's going on?
caller: help me. my son is missing. i'm going crazy.
operator: okay, you're going to have to calm down. what address are you at?
caller: 13604 sunrise red. would you help me? please help me.
operator: how old is he?
caller: he's five. my god, where's my son?
operator: what color shirt is he wearing?
caller: black shirt. he's lost.
operator: what color pants?
caller: i don't know.
operator: what's your name?
caller: nadia. please help me.
operator: how long has it been since you've seen him?
caller: about half an hour ago.
operator: where was he the last time you saw him?
scenario:robbery
caller: he was out front.
operator: are your neighbors helping you look for him?
caller: yeah, they don't see him anywhere.
operator: did you go in the house to see if he went in to hide?
caller: he's nowhere in the house or the back.
operator: does he have any siblings?
caller: yes, he has brothers and sisters.
operator: has he ever done this before?
caller: no, never.
operator: was the two-year-old with him?
caller: no, he was wearing a black shirt.
operator: so he was playing by himself in the front yard?
caller: yes, his older brother was there too.
operator: how old is the older brother?
caller: he's seven.
operator: and did you ask the older brother if he's seen him?
caller: yes, i did. he hasn't seen him.
operator: okay, and that's your address: 13604 sunrise red?
caller: yes, please help me.
operator: don't worry, we're sending help. just stay calm.
caller: what if someone took him?
operator: let's not jump to conclusions. have you checked inside the house thoroughly?
caller: yes, he's not there.
operator: try to stay calm for your other children, okay?
caller: okay, i will.
caller: wait, he's back! he walked back home!
operator: he's back? are you sure?
caller: yes, he's here!
operator: alright, stay calm. is he okay?
caller: yes, he seems fine. thank you.
operator: good. we're still sending someone to check on you. stay safe.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: can you send a cop over here to my house?
operator: what's the phone number you're calling from?
operator: what is your name?
caller: hurry up, because this is a blightly. he came to knock it on my door earlier, and he left, and now he's back out there again to stare at my back door. i'm so scared. please, hurry.
operator: stay on the line with me. were weapons involved or mentioned?
operator: were weapons involved or mentioned?
caller: no, no, no, no. i didn't open the door because i was scared. and then he laughed and now he's just been in there. i mean, i have a gun in my hand, but i'm scared to use it.
operator: okay. his description is he's sitting black?
caller: yeah, he's black.
operator: what is he wearing?
caller: his orange shirt on. oh, my god, now he's gone.
operator: where'd he go? how old is he?
caller: i don't know. he looks about early 20s.
operator: okay. do you have a height or weight?
caller: oh, no, just get somebody out here, please.
operator: okay, did he ride in a vehicle?
caller: no, he's on a bicycle.
operator: are you or anyone else in immediate danger?
caller: my son and my two-year-old son's here with me.
operator: are you able to get yourself to safety?
caller: i don't know where to go. come in, jonathan. please care.
operator: where exactly are you in your house?
caller: i'm in my living room. i was looking out the window. he was just staring at my back door.
operator: okay. i want you to stay on the line with me. i'm going to have help on the way there. i want you to stay on the line for sheriff's dispatch, okay? are your doors and windows locked?
caller: yes, and i have my alarm system on.
operator: okay. are you in your bedroom with your son?
caller: yeah, i just came to my bedroom. oh, my god, please. i'm scared.
operator: they're already on their way. just stay on the line with me.
caller: i don't know where he went. he was just standing on my back porch, and now he's gone. i don't know where he went. i got my husband's gun out, but i don't know what to do. i'm so scared.
operator: i understand you're scared, but you don't see him anymore?
caller: no, i don't see him, but this is the second time he came.
operator: okay, i understand. just stay on the line with me.
caller: oh, my god.
operator: while you're staying on the line, i'm transferring you to sheriff's dispatch as well. they have additional questions while the officers are en route.
caller: yeah, i want to call my husband.
operator: manatee county sheriff's office, operator 34 on a recorded line. how can i help you?
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: 999, please, fire ambulance. uh, police.
operator: this is 9-9-9. what is the address of the emergency?
caller: this is dale ford. fast record 211 north 7th. i've called a burglar in my shop.
operator: 211 north 7th?
caller: 211 north 7th. i got him gun down right now. got a gun on him. he's here in my shop.
operator: are you there?
caller: i'm here.
operator: you stay on the line with me.
caller: okay.
caller: all right. i fired a couple of shots at him, but he's here in my shop.
operator: did you hit him?
caller: he said i hit him in his arm. it's just a .22.
operator: what is your name?
caller: dale ford, 211 north 7th.
operator: i want you to stay on the line with me. are you hurt in any way?
caller: no, i'm not. and he said i hit him in his arm. i'm talking to him. he's hit in the arm.
operator: the intruder, you shot at him and hit him in the arm?
caller: yes, it's just a .22, so he's mostly okay. he's laying on the floor.
operator: i've already dispatched an ambulance. i want you to stay on the line with me in case something happens before they arrive. okay? is there anyone else there with him?
caller: no. he said he was in here looking for his brother.
operator: do we know where the brother is?
caller: no. i think he's just telling stories.
operator: okay, so there's possibly someone else?
caller: he mentioned his brother charles. i got broken into a week ago and some stuff got stolen, so i've been sleeping down here.
operator: there is an officer on scene.
caller: okay, i'm sitting here in the door.
operator: just stay on the line with me until you see the officer, but do not point the gun towards them, okay?
caller: okay, i'm laying it down. he's on me.
caller: officer, i'm up here in this doorway. i got some new cars in the lot.
caller: he doesn't see me.
operator: can he see you now?
caller: i'm up here in the doorway at the shop. i'm talking to the dispatcher on the line.
caller: i got the dispatcher on the line. i'm right here. i got the burglar inside here. i laid the gun on my desk.
operator: okay, stay where you are. let me know if anything changes.
caller: i hit him in the arm, okay? i'm still talking to him. he's trying to run away on me.
caller: the officer's here.
operator: okay, i'm going to let you go. thank you.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: hey, can you get an ambulance and a cop over to 59 alderwood drive?
operator: 59 what?
caller: alderwood. a-l-d-e-r-w-o-o-d. she just attacked me with a knife, and i had to shoot her.
operator: okay, i have help on the way. you said 59 alderwood street?
caller: alderwood, a-l-d-e-r-w-o-o-d.
operator: okay, stay on the line with me. is she breathing?
caller: i don't know. hang on a second.
operator: are you okay?
caller: alderwood, a-l-d-e-r-w-o-o-d, hurry.
operator: okay, i have it. adam, lincoln, david?
caller: delta, delta, e-r, wood.
operator: are you in los angeles county?
caller: no, no, stafford, virginia.
operator: this is for las cruces, new mexico. are you located in las cruces, new mexico?
caller: i'm in virginia. i'm in virginia.
operator: you're in virginia?
caller: yes.
operator: i need you to stay on the line with me.
caller: i'm calling 999 on my cell phone as well. give me one moment.
operator: okay, i have help on the way. give me one second.
caller: thank you.
operator: can you confirm your address is 59 alderwood drive? your wife attacked you with a knife and you had to shoot her?
caller: alderwood, a-l-d-e-r-w-o-o-d.
operator: okay. stay on the line with me.
caller: a-l-d-e-r, a-alpha, l-lincoln, d-delta, e-r, wood.
operator: i have help on the way. alderwood, a-l-d-e-r-w-o-o-d.
caller: 59. 5-9. 59.
operator: okay, sir, can you hear me?
caller: yes, it's on my holster.
operator: sir, can you hear me?
caller: i'm an fbi agent.
operator: please, stay on the line with me.
caller: yes, ma'am.
operator: are you able to put the weapon down safely?
caller: yes, i'll put it right on the counter, okay? there's a dog, but she's not.
operator: sir, can you hear me?
caller: yes, it's on the counter.
operator: sir, can you hear me?
caller: yeah.
operator: what do you mean?
caller: please, hurry.
operator: yes, yes, yes. help is on the way.
caller: she cut me on the arm.
operator: is she breathing?
caller: i think so, but i don't know. it doesn't look like she is.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: now we want a margin to do. what are you reporting?
operator: what are you reporting?
caller: he was tied up by dorman.
operator: i'm sorry?
caller: this unit. we have been tied up by him. he was taken off with a nissan rogue.
operator: okay.
caller: three?
operator: yeah.
operator: when did this happen? when did he go inside?
caller: it was, we think he was actually here from when he left the truck.
caller: we weren't using his unit.
caller: it was never checked.
caller: we came in this, and we were fixing it up after a long-term rental, so we didn't have it much out.
operator: you guys were tied up?
caller: yeah, how about still?
operator: okay, and how long ago did he leave?
caller: let's see him.
operator: stay on the line, okay?
caller: yes.
caller: we also have housekeepers on the property. i don't know if they ever saw him. he did anything to them or not with their part out.
operator: did he take your vehicle?
caller: he took our keys.
operator: what keys?
caller: nissan wood.
operator: what color vehicle?
caller: it's like a purple-ish moon color.
caller: all the road drive.
caller: it was just dark and control.
operator: what's a make and model?
caller: it's a nissan rogue.
operator: nissan what?
caller: rogue. r-o-g-u-e.
operator: what color clothing was he wearing?
caller: i really didn't take notice. he actually was keeping us from looking at him.
operator: you're not sure?
operator: and that he left about 15 to 30 minutes ago?
caller: 15 to 30 minutes, yes.
operator: when did he tie you up?
caller: right before leaving, he tied us up. he had pillowcases over our heads.
operator: how long ago did he tie you up?
caller: it was like 15 to 30 minutes.
operator: okay, so this all happened today?
caller: yes, yes. we're still tied up.
operator: you're still tied up?
caller: yes.
operator: listen, i already have deputies being dispatched out there. i'm just going to keep you on the line.
operator: was he by himself?
caller: yes.
operator: do you know what he was wearing?
caller: he was wearing black clothes, black pants, red shirt. i don't remember if it was a t-shirt or a long-sleeve.
operator: who's there with you?
caller: my husband.
operator: do you guys need paramedics?
caller: um... maybe.
operator: hey, can somebody get me med for that home invasion?
caller: hello?
operator: i'm still here.
operator: did he have any weapons on him?
caller: he had an automatic with a silencer. it was a black one.
operator: was he inside when you guys arrived?
caller: yes, i'm pretty sure.
operator: do you think he's been there the whole time?
caller: yes, because it's been empty. and i know there were never any tracks up and down here, including this morning.
operator: what time did you arrive there?
caller: um, we came in, well, we live here. we live on the property. this is one of our condos. we have a, we have a desert. we came in, i don't know what time it was. it was a little afternoon. we came in to work on it. we were going to work in here.
operator: did you guys see footprints outside prior to going in your house?
caller: no.
operator: anybody else other than you and your husband that were tied up?
caller: we were tied up in here. i have my daughter who is doing housekeeping and a housekeeper working outside of the property. we don't know if they are okay.
caller: are you sure if someone's coming here?
operator: i'm sure somebody's going. we have several units on their way out there, ma'am.
caller: i don't know. i didn't take notice that it's yours among.
operator: do you hear deputies?
caller: no.
caller: we are in one of the back buildings.
operator: you're in one of the back buildings?
caller: yes, upstairs in one of the back buildings. we have three back buildings in the middle back.
operator: well, i don't have any doors.
caller: so three in big bear, right?
caller: yes. if they can see 201 and 202 that is the front building, we're in the building behind it.
operator: you're in the building behind what?
caller: the units that say 201 and 202 and the building behind that building.
operator: you're behind building 202?
caller: yeah, that's close enough.
caller: i don't know. would they have sirens on?
caller: oh, god.
caller: are you still there?
operator: hello here.
operator: i'm going to keep you on the line until my deputies make contact with you.
caller: okay. it's just hard to tell when the phone goes to sleep, you know. we are right across from where the command center was all we've seen.
operator: you guys are just across from the command center?
caller: we're at right to all these days. it's not there anymore. from the prep house, at the golf course.
operator: did you guys just go up there today to check the property?
caller: yes. we were too busy all weekend just coming here to work.
operator: so you guys arrived there today?
caller: yes. it's still like right with all our properties. we just never came into this.
operator: she's still there.
caller: i'm still here. i'm going to stay on the line with you until my deputies actually go in there and help you guys, okay?
caller: did i try to get the door open?
operator: i'm sorry?
caller: i'm not just fighting death store. i thought maybe i could open it now or something. it's locked, and i can't...
operator: oh, okay. sorry, it's locked.
caller: we can't... it's too hard to manipulate the way he has us tied.
scenario:medical
operator: your husband's still tied?
caller: yeah, we're both still tied.
caller: i just scooted over.
caller: he left the cell phone in a different room.
caller: he left in here.
caller: i don't suppose you could... try my better self-condem exercise.
operator: 9-9-9, what's your emergency?
caller: can you hear me? can you hear me?
operator: yes, i can hear you. what's going on?
caller: okay, 25 arch street, apartment four. you know what i'm talking about?
operator: okay, what's going on?
caller: hello? what's going on at 25 south arch, apartment four?
caller: well, i just strangled my girlfriend.
operator: you strangled your girlfriend?
caller: yep.
operator: what's your name?
caller: randy.
operator: randy?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, where are you at right now?
caller: i'm sitting here on the bed, getting ready to go out by the door.
operator: you're getting ready to go out by the door?
caller: yeah.
operator: okay, what are you wearing?
caller: i got a walker. i can't walk well.
operator: so you want me to stay on the phone or stay right in here or what?
caller: i don't... where are you at? you're just standing by the door? you're in her apartment?
caller: i'm in her apartment right now. i'm on the edge of the bed.
operator: what's her name?
caller: willa, taylor, helman.
operator: alright. so we got them coming to you.
caller: okay.
operator: do you have any weapons?
caller: no, i don't. nope.
operator: okay. i want you to stay on the line with me, okay? you're sure you're at 25 south arch, apartment four?
caller: yes.
caller: i need to get up and unlock the door.
operator: okay. do you see the officers?
caller: pardon me?
operator: do you see the officers?
caller: no, i'm sitting on the bed. i need to walk over to the door to unlock it.
operator: okay, go ahead and unlock the door.
operator: he advised he is in a walker and having difficulty walking at this time.
operator: can you come out to the door right now?
caller: yes.
operator: you're coming out right now?
caller: yes.
operator: do you have a cordless phone?
caller: pardon me?
operator: are you on a cordless phone?
caller: i have a cordless phone, but i use a walker.
operator: you can go ahead and hang up with me and go ahead out.
caller: all right. bye.
operator: bye.